# Release QA testing

This page describes manual QA testing routines that we perform before a release.

## Administrator-facing QA {:#admin}

### Pre-requisites for testing Installation & Upgrades

#### For setups from scratch
* Create and push a tag on GitHub with a draft release version.
    ```sh
    git checkout $VERSION
    git pull
    git tag "draft-$VERSION"
    git push origin "draft-$VERSION"
    ```
  * GH will automatically create a draft release containing the static assets for this tag. This will take a few minutes.
* Use the following command to download the static_files.zip asset from the draft release for the "Download release static files and extract into the correct directory" step during installation.
    ```sh
    gh release download --repo mathesar-foundation/mathesar "draft-$VERSION" -p 'static_files.zip'
    ```
    * You could also download this file via the GH web UI.
    * Since draft releases aren't final, the urls generated by GH for the assets are dynamic. The static urls are formed when the release is published.

#### For docker related setups
**For installations**
* Clear out remains of any previous installations.

**For upgrades**
* Clear out remains of any previous installations.
* Install the current published version of Mathesar.

**For both**
* Locally download and tag the new version images as `latest`:

    ```sh
    docker image pull mathesar/mathesar-caddy:<version_number>
    docker image tag mathesar/mathesar-caddy:<version_number> mathesar/mathesar-caddy:latest
    
    docker image pull mathesar/mathesar-prod:<version_number>
    docker image tag mathesar/mathesar-prod:<version_number> mathesar/mathesar-prod:latest
    ```

### Tasks
- [ ] Test installing the release from scratch by following our documentation
- [ ] Test all different installation methods
    - [ ] Docker compose
        - [ ] All defaults, local
        - [ ] Exposed on domain, DB managed by Mathesar
        - [ ] Exposed on domain, DB preexisting for users, managed DB for Django
        - [ ] Exposed on domain, DB preexisting for all data
    - [ ] Docker integrated image
        - [ ] All defaults, local
        - [ ] Exposed on domain, DB managed by Mathesar
        - [ ] Exposed on domain, DB preexisting for users, managed DB for Django
        - [ ] Exposed on domain, DB preexisting for all data
    - [ ] Build from scratch
        - [ ] All defaults, local
        - [ ] Exposed on domain, DB preexisting for all data
- [ ] Test that previously installed versions of Mathesar can be upgraded to this release.
    - [ ] Docker compose -- All above variants for docker compose
        - [ ] Same docker compose file, same `.env`
        - [ ] New docker compose file, same `.env`
        - [ ] New docker compose file, bring `.env` into the new file
    - [ ] Build from scratch -- All above variants for build from scratch


### Cleanup
* Destroy any infra setup on GCP that was created for QA purposes.
* Delete the draft release and tag that were created when testing "Setups from scratch".
    ```sh
    gh release delete "draft-$VERSION" -y
    git tag -d "draft-$VERSION"
    git push -d origin "draft-$VERSION"
    ```


## User-facing QA {:#users}

!!! tip "Tips:"
    - Don't just aim to complete the tests with the minimum possible steps — try to test the edges around each of the features, seeing if you can hammer at Mathesar to break something or uncover bugs.
    - If you find a bug, try to reproduce it against the latest release (e.g. on the demo site). If you _can_ reproduce it on the latest release, then it's not a regression. It's still worth reporting, but it won't be as high of a priority. If you _can't_ reproduce it on the latest release, then it _is_ a regression. It's important to specify this.
    - The PRs for issues should be based off of the release branch, and merged into the release branch.

Tasks:

- Test create/update/delete for:
    - [ ] Mathesar users
    - [ ] Connection
    - [ ] Schema
    - [ ] Table
    - [ ] Column
    - [ ] Constraint
- Import    
    - [ ] Test basic import.
    - [ ] Try different options for "Data Source"
    - [ ] Try different options for "Column Data Types"
- Table Page
    - [ ] Test filtering, sorting, grouping
    - [ ] Test pagination
    - [ ] Test updating cell values for all data types
    - [ ] Test showing/hiding/resizing table inspector and collapsing/expanding sections
    - [ ] Test keyboard shortcuts to move active cell, enter edit mode, save value
    - [ ] Ensure the context menu looks correct for data cells, column header cells, and row header cells
    - [ ] Test table sharing
    - [ ] Test cell selection via: dragging from data cell to data cell, dragging from column header cell to column header cell, dragging from row header cell to row header cell
    - [ ] Test custom record summary template
    - [ ] Test updating column data type
    - [ ] Test updating column display settings
    - [ ] Test setting column default value
    - [ ] Test column re-ordering via drag & drop
    - [ ] Test "Create Link" dialog
    - [ ] Test "Extract Column Into a New Table"
    - [ ] Test "Move Column To Linked Table"
    - [ ] Test "Share" functionality — and test that the share page works
- Record Selector
    - [ ] Test filtering on multiple columns
    - [ ] Test picking an existing record
    - [ ] Test creating a new record from within the record selector
    - [ ] Test selecting a record from within a nested record selector
    - [ ] Test horizontal and vertical scrolling for narrow and short viewports
- Record Page
    - [ ] Test updating direct fields
    - [ ] Test setting field values to null
    - [ ] Test navigating to linked records through linked record input
    - [ ] Test loading a record page with linked records
- Data Explorer
    - [ ] Test creating and saving an exploration from Data Explorer view
    - [ ] Try joining columns from multiple tables without summarization
    - [ ] Try joining columns from multiple tables with summarization
    - [ ] Try renaming column in column properties
    - [ ] Test pagination
    - [ ] Test 'Filter' transformation
    - [ ] Test 'Sort' transformation
    - [ ] Test 'Hide Columns' transformation
    - [ ] Test 'Summarization' transformation
    - [ ] Try summarizing with different aggregations
    - [ ] Test opening an existing exploration
    - [ ] Test editing and saving an existing exploration
    - [ ] Create an exploration from Table page -> Inspector -> Actions -> Explore Data
    - [ ] Test "Share" functionality — and test that the share page works
