---
title: 2021-01-26 Competitive Advantage Brainstorming
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-04-19T20:43:21.303Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-04-19T20:19:30.884Z
---

## Open Search 

This assumes that open search will focus on scholarly journals at first.

### Advantages
- Experience with open content search for Brent and Kriti
- Some contacts in the OpenEd industry through CC and CCI
- Brent has some experience with the academic research process (for math at least)
- It seems there's a gap in the market related to reference chasing.

### Concerns
- Open search experience is probably only beneficial for first 3-6 months of project
- Search is difficult, and there's lots of competition.
- Can we differentiate ourselves enough from Sci-Hub, Unpaywall, etc. enough to either attract users from them or to create a new market?
- Potential user base may be smaller than other ideas (users who pay attention to academic research)

### Assumptions
- Reference chasing is a hassle for most researchers.
- No good solutions for reference chasing currently exist.
- Users will more often want to find a specific article rather than "articles about subject X"
- It will be possible to aggregate a sufficiently large number of journal articles to be useful (it generally has to be a precise article.  The tool is waaay less useful if it only has say 75% of articles available)

### Potential User Research Groups
- Graduate students
- Professors
- Journalists
- Autodidacts

## Personalized Learning

### Advantages
- Kriti would use this regularly
- Experience with open content search for Brent and Kriti
- The market is extremely fractured; no dominant player as of yet.
- Access to KFG's underlay technology could make developing and suggesting curricula easier.
- It seems like the market for this may be the largest (to Brent):
    - Business could put together curricula for workers
    - Unis could put together curricula for obvious users
    - Consumers could access curricula from different instance through some aggregator service.
- Education contacts including through CC and KFG
- Potential market:
    - professors without institutional support to publish classes and their students
    - individual users who know of a good learning resource and want to share it to their friends
    - Students struggling with difficult material, but who have no access to a professor or other learners to ask questions of.
    
### Concerns
- There is lots of competition in the learn-on-your-own space.
- There is lots of competition in the "courses published by institutions" space.
- There may be IP issues around aggregating different courses
- In a situation with no professor available, how should a learner discern between advice/commentary from experts vs. idiots?

### Questions
- Is there an EdX-like platform that breaks the assumption that the professor will be available during the course?

### Assumptions
- People would find aggregation of learning resources useful
- People would find discussion of difficult material useful
- There's no great aggregator of learning resources currently available
- A user flow requiring one to log in on a 3rd party site is acceptable to users
- Putting together a curriculum for oneself or others is a desired task (rather than just finding a single class/book at a time)
- People want to achieve goals but are put off by not knowing what they need to learn to get to that goal

### Potential User Research Groups
- Professors
- Learners
    - Users of current self-learning software
    - Students at traditional institutions
- Non-teacher experts
    - Folks with educational(ish) youtube channels
    - Folks with educational(ish) blogs
    - Folks with lots of Stack Overflow answers?
- Businesses
    - Someone who handles internal training at a business would be great

## Easy DB

### Advantages
- Kriti would use this regularly
- Potentially large user base (individuals, companies), since it can help many different types of users
- Maybe it can be the Electron of applications like the health dashboard, make them easy to build

### Concerns
- Most people don't think of problems being solved by general database applications
- Of those who _do_ think of general data, do many need the easy tool?

### Assumptions
- Most people don't think of problems being solved by general database applications
- People want to store and analyze some sort of data but are unhappy with the tooling they have
- People want to connect different types of data to each other (which they can't do with spreadsheets)

### Potential User Research Groups
- Airtable users
- Would-be airtable users who want their own instance for security reasons (e.g., some businesses)
- Spreadsheet users (what do they wish they could do with spreadsheets)
- Hacker News people who mentioned Dabble DB

## Health Dashboard

### Advantages
- Kriti really needs this personally and uses diet/fitness/migraine tracking apps daily
- We've got experience with gathering data from all sorts of sources with CC Search
- CCI has connections to the health community
- BayesDB could be a good backend for health analysis and recommendations

### Concerns
- This feels like a crowded market if one allows proprietary apps.
    - Proprietary apps only focus on subsets of health data, but perhaps people only care about subsets of health data
- Health data is radioactive; Holding it is dangerous from a liability standpoint

### Assumptions
- This product doesn't already exist (I guess this should go for every idea)
- there is some advantage to a non-proprietary version of health tracking that will be convincing to users
- Users want to track their health
- Users want to analyze their health and get personalized recommendations

### Potential User Research Groups
- Users of calorie tracking apps
- Users of fitness apps
- Users of migraine tracking apps
- Reddit users of fitness or health related subs
- Users of wearable fitness tracking devices
- Doctors? (I'm thinking of the avenue where this is sort of a health communication tool)