---
title: 2021-01-11 Brainstorming Summary
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-04-19T20:44:02.599Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-04-19T20:19:23.904Z
---

We are aiming to build a new software project that:  
1. is open source  
1. benefits society in some way
1. is financially sustainable in the long term

To help us decide what exactly to build, we've been thinking through the changes in society that we'd like to see and some potential software that could help us make those changes.

## Potential Goals

Here are some potential ways in which we think society can be improved.

1. **[Accelerate Innovation](accelerate-innovation.md)**: We'd like to see people producing new science, knowledge, culture, and art more quickly.
1. **[Connect People](connect-people.md)**: We'd like to build connections between people that provide positive and meaningful social connections instead of the harmful ways in which social media affects people.
1. **[Decentralize the Internet](decentralize-internet.md)**: Most people depend on large, centralized platforms for the majority of what they do online. We'd like to change that and give laypeople control of their own data.
1. **[Encourage Conversation](encourage-conversation.md)**: Partisanship is on the rise. We'd like to incentivize people who disagree to actually engage with each other.
1. **[Encourage Thoughtfulness](encourage-thinking.md)**: People have access to a lot of information but it is useless without the mental tools to properly utilize that information. We'd like to give them those tools.
1. **[Innovate Discovery](innovate-discovery.md)**: Most search engines rely on keyword search and filters. We'd like to innovate new forms of search that more closely mimic how people discover things in real life.
1. **[Enhance Credibility](credibility.md)**: People don't trust news, articles, scientific papers, etc. We'd like to make the data behind sources easier to understand.

## Potential Software Ideas

Here's some software we could build, separated into rough categories:

### Making Data More Accessible

The ideas in this category deal with finding and manipulating data in a programmatic way. Most of the goals above can be related to this topic, but perhaps the strongest links are with Innovate Discovery and Accelerate Innovation.

* **[Automated Data Scraper for laypeople](auto-data-scraper.md)**: Create custom website scrapers without any code.
* **[Build Your Own Search](build-your-own-search.md)**: Allow anyone to create a custom search engine with a minimum of fuss
	* Builds on [Automated Data Scraper for laypeople](auto-data-scraper.md)
* **[GUI for CRUD Data Manipulation for laypeople](dabble.md)**: Allow non-technical users to perform database-like operations on data.
	* Could integrate with [Automated Data Scraper for laypeople](auto-data-scraper.md)

### Specialized Search Engines

The ideas in this category are web search engines which we don't believe exist, but for which we believe there may be a market. These are all inspired by the Innovate Discovery goal above. They  could also support all of the other goals, however.

* **[Open Search](open-search.md)**: Make openly licensed content discoverable, starting with open access research.
* **[Code Search](code-search.md)**: Better search engine for open source code.
* **["Wander" Search](direction-search.md)**: Media search engine that allows users to search by similarity to other media (e.g. "similar composition, but with a dog instead of a cat").
* **[Personalized Learning](personalized-learning.md)**: Collate and curate openly licensed resources to allow people to learn new skills and assimilate knowledge more quickly.
* **[Food Inventory and Recipe Search Engine](recipe-search.md)**: A tool that can keep track of the food you already own and use that information to find recipes that you can cook with what's in your pantry. 

### Building Better Online Communities

The ideas in this category hope to create a less divisive atmosphere online, and encourage users to talk and think together in productive ways.  These are related to the Connect People, Decentralize the Internet, Encourage Conversation, and Encourage Thoughtfulness goals above. Perhaps also Enhance Credibility.

* **[Distributed Social Networking](distributed-social.md)**: Peer to peer social network where users host their own data
* **[Social network centered on source material](source-commentary-ecosystem.md)**: A "reverse Reddit" that would load on the source article page and facilitate discussions inline.
* **[Experimental Social Media Platforms](social-media-experiments.md)**: Create experimental social media platforms with different rules (e.g.  [ROBOT9000](https://blog.xkcd.com/2008/01/14/robot9000-and-xkcd-signal-attacking-noise-in-chat/)) and see how it affects the community.
* **[Moderation as a Service](moderation-service.md)**: Offer entirely transparent moderation as a service where all decisions and appeals are completely public.

### Decentralizing the Internet

Most ideas under "Building Better Online Communities" also count as decentralizing the internet.

* **[One Click Self-Hosted Email](self-hosted-email.md)**: An email server and client that's as easy to host yourself as WordPress.
* **[Complete Home Management Suite](home-management.md)**: Suite of self-hosted software that allows users to manage their home (tasks, maintenance, inventory, budgeting, scheduling, media server, etc.)

### Enhancing Credibility

These ideas, when done well, should also contribute to the Encourage Conversation and Encourage Thoughtfulness ideas above.

* **[Article Checker](article-checker.md)**: Put in news article URL, show all relevant citations.
* **[Automated Credibility Metrics](automated-credibility-metrics.md)**: Automated credibility calculation for scientific papers based on analysis of open data related to the paper.
* **[Information Genealogy Project](info-genealogy.md)**: Create a navigable graph of predictions of whether a given work was inspired by another (or combination of others).
* **[Blockchain Registries](blockchain-registries.md)**: Register openly licensed works on a blockchain / alternative to copyright registries
