---
title: Joi Ito (#1)
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-04-19T21:25:13.787Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-04-19T20:19:58.404Z
---

# Kriti, Brent, Joi Brainstorming Meeting

**Date**: 2021-01-20  
**Attendees**: Kriti (CCI), Brent (CCI), Joi (CCI)

## General Discussion

- No need to eliminate any ideas on account of funding or CCI interests.
- Discussion about more rigorous discussion related to data and models needed worldwide
- Systems Biology is a good field to explore for data, member of CCI network is working on tools to standardize ontology, categorize papers by interaction and pathway
- IP is a blocker for creating models
- Croquet: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Croquet_Project team has experienced graphics team that come up with innovations
    - Original Smalltalk team
    - Generation of people that believed in computers as learning tools, not consumption devices
    - Joi will get Kriti and Brent a demo


## Health Dashboard
- _did not have time to discuss in detail_
- Joi likes this idea, related to CCI community projects.

## Open (access) Search
- Would be good to get input from Alexandra (from sci-hub), Joi can connect us
- If we can do a legitimate sci-hub, that would be really useful
- One angle to take is help people discover papers (open access or not), show them how to get it legitimately
- Citation search and exploration would be one angle to help discovery
- Category of software called research tool, AJP swears by http://www.qiqqa.com/, personal knowledge management. Related category.
    - AJP knows the developer, can talk to them.
- Everyone uses knowledge management software differently, too many features
    - Obsidian does core stuff well, leaves everything else to plugins
    - Design decisions for highly pluralistic things alienate large groups of people even if they help a bunch of people
- Wander search needs the right generalization to make directional searching clean
    - Knowledge graph needed, Underlay is trying to be this
    - Knowledge graph scholarship is fairly sparse right now but picking up
    - Good timing to think of search in a more sophisticated way
    - Google has a lot invested in their current paradigm, and haven't been doing search for _that_ long.
- For Wander Search, find researchers that are doing work in this space, ProbComp might have a good network

## Personalized Learning
- _did not have time to discuss in detail_
- Joi likes this idea, related to CCI community projects.

## Simple DB
- Joi likes this idea
- Bayes DB is looking for a friendly user interface and UX innovations in this product could help.
- Airtable is not extensible enough (and no open source or SQL)
- We need to find good ways to make conversations about data accessible (e.g. with solar geoengineering for climate, https://geoengineering.environment.harvard.edu/)