# Hessel brainstorming meeting

**Date**: 2021-01-26  
**Attendees**: Brent, Kriti, Hessel

## Background

- CCI intro (Joi)
- Initial conversations about Open Source, and the good it does
    - Joi secured funding for us to work on an open source product of our choice

### From the email

- is this really a problem amongst large groups of people that you are trying to solve
- if it is, are people actually willing to pay for a solution
- do you offer a solution
- which parts are doable without a green light from rightsholders / 3rd parties / traditional systems
- which parts will cost more time or are overlooked 
- what is the social impact if you get this right
- is this something that I feel passionate about too

## Discussion
- Hessel is struggling with answering the questions from the email for all these ideas.
- Difference between "useful" and "makes the world better"
    - Think about higher goals for the product
- All four ideas – the barrier isn't technological, it's politics. People are making money and don't want others to enter the space or to open up.

### Open Search
- Most intriguing, Hessel has least experience with the idea
- Brent explained about existing academic research browser extensions and Google Scholar
    - We can wedge ourselves in between, find references or citations associated with papers
- Brent: this is a small space, do you think it's worth wedging ourselves in this space?
    - Hessel doesn't care about the niche, solving a problem for a niche is better than trying to persuade large groups of people.
    - Hessel worked for a company that manually made abstracts searchable, they were beaten by companies that use data mining, way worse result but also way chapter.
        - These companies struggle because of IP issues with abstracts
    - Should be easy to test MVP with real researchers
    - Start with researchers and students, they can influence the universities. Universities don't change very quickly.
- Push API for researchers
    - Hessel: add rating/evaluation tools immediately to give people feedback/improve credibility
    - Traditional journals have gone down the drain with COVID and rapid response times needed
- Smaller audience than other ideas


### Easy DB
- Most skeptical of this, "database" and "laypeople" don't mix.

### Personal Health
- Don't mix personal health/wellness and hospital/medical records
- People in Europe are fed up with how their data is being treated and are not willing to share data
- Seems too much like a first world problem
    - Hessel has a couple of doctor friends that say that the more data you give to patients, the more insecure and less happy it makes you.
    - People in developing countries will probably sell their data given monetary incentives from insurance companies etc.
- May help with a subset of issues like migraines, not help humanity in the long run
- Hessel's doctor friend: so many people who walk whose medical scans say they shouldn't, people whose scans are normal and don't show any issues end up having a lot of issues
- Aim to increase data literacy.
- IBM Watson: text based research worked well (input: tweets, predict probabilty of someone wanting to drink Coke given the weather)
    - Music and video analysis did not work well
    - Company used it to automate paperwork for lawyers, worked 99% well
    - Different company tried to automate medical stuff, didn't work as well. People's different mental health states leads them to interpret data differently.
- Keep in mind that if they misinterpret the data completely, there should not be a lot of consequences

### Personalized Learning Management

- Super interesting, especially with the pandemic.
- Society has been moving towards long life learning since the 90s
- The most appealing/engaging content has a big wall around it.
- The curation aspect will take the most resources
    - Free Music Archive was created by volunteers who curated all sorts of genres and subgenres

## Post-Call Thoughts

### Open Search
- I think the focus on individuals is wise:  ("Start with researchers and students, let the influence flow up")
- The side convo about rating/eval tools for the push API reinforced my bias that this, the article checker, the automated credibility metrics, and the personalized learning management are all somehow the same product (or at least can interoperate) a few years down the road

### Personal health
- To make this more worldwide applicable, and to solve the "too much data" issue, would it make sense to rethink this from an "enhanced communication" perspective rather than a self-data-wrangling perspective?
    - I.e., the tool could help doctors communicate data-driven insights to their patients more effectively
    - The tool could be something a person uses _in collaboration with_ their physician.
