# Ben Adida brainstorming meeting

**Date**: 2021-01-27  
**Attendees**: Kriti, Brent, Ben Adida

## Easy DB
- Not a lot of special expertise.
- Find an answer to "Why do I care about this beyond Airtable?"
- Cannot create 2-3 week milestone for this, find an easier milestone 1
- Is your first user
    - someone who does genomics studies?
    - someone who is comparing cars to buy and needs to share with their spouse?

## Personal Health Dashboard
- Have some expertise here, worked on this for a few years
- This idea's been around for a long time
- Key ideas are from Children's hospital Boston
- Guardian Angel project (out of MIT) by Pete ?
    - One of the early uses of the web was for health data
- Inspired a project: Indivo
- Gave rise to Google Health, M$ Health vault
- Issues that came up:
    - What is the use case?
        - Take data to doctor, whatever
    - How do you get the actual data?
- There may be an opening now, thanks to Apple wedging itself in there
- Still need to figure out a use case
- There's a different roadmap between getting data from hospitals vs. from on-app stuff.
    - You can prototype wearable data right now but hospitals are harder to get

## Open Search
- How is this different from Google Scholar?
    - Citation lookup user interface
    - Genealogy of notes
- It's cool, but is it useful?
    - It might be, needs to be validated
- We know there are references in papers that are reference padding/bullshit
    - Some are academically meaningful
    - Relationships are generic, maybe it's community editable annotations of relationships (more fine tuned graph), this paper is derived from the other one, this paper only cites the other one to pad itself
- To focus this idea: determine the use case, determine what exactly you want from it.
    - Chasing down citations and references is pretty narrow
    - Broadening to understanding the state of research in a particular field (latest and greatest publications), is that the use case?
- Dig deeper on the problem, don't do first do this, then this, then this, then this (our eventual goal). That's a lot of ifs. Try to solve a slice of the actual problem now.
- Talk to a bunch of early adopters.
- The problem is that there is less structure in all of this data that we'd like to be.
    - What does the graph of the data look like?

## Personalized Learning
- "Business" model
    - two sided business model: folks producing content, folks consuming content
    - getting the ball rolling requires going deep on one vertical or finding a community
    - Amazon started by selling only books
- Why will people go to your platform initially?
    - How you do the first batch of content doesn't have to scale with the next batch
    - Go to one professor at a time, use their classes
        - Like a LMS
    - To do this, we need to recruit a few professors and do deep product research on this
- Is your first user a teacher or a consumer?
    - Who is your user for milestone 1?
    - Bring them into a room, show them the product, go behind 1 way mirror and try it

## General Discussion
- Build a 2-3 week prototype of each idea that you can show to users
    - Or subset of ideas
- Don't look for technical differences between what you're trying to build, look for meaningful product differences
- What are the superpowers you have (or "unfair advantages")? What gives you a leg up on anyone else working on this?
    - Relationships
    - Domain or technical expertise?
- These projects are hard, but if we're really excited about a project, we can overcome difficulty
