---
title: Knowledge Futures Group
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-04-19T21:24:58.112Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-04-19T20:19:51.231Z
---

# KFG Brainstorming Meeting

**Date**: 2021-01-12  
**Attendees**: Kriti (CCI), Brent (CCI), Travis Rich (KFG), Zach Verdin (KFG), Gabriel Stein (KFG), Catherine Ahearn (KFG)

## Learning From KFG
- KFG started from PubPu bbeing built at the Media Lab and seeing how many people needed something like that.
    - Options for scaling PubPub beyond a grad school project: Keep it in academia, VC funding, nonprofit, etc.
    - Academia is not built for operationalize and run a company
    - VC corrupts
    - Need for institution with technology expertise to build these types of products and parter with other organizations (e.g. MIT Press)
        - Goal of partnership include building shared revenue streams with users of products
- Is KFG thinking about hosted services? Monoliths create their own issues (there are problems with centralization by design).
    - Vision: decentralized protocols made available through centralized tools, leading to distributed system.
    - Other software like DSpace, etc. – people who set it up retire and then it's no longer updated and university is using 10 year old version
        - no interoperability with CrossRef, etc.
    - Git is a good model, GitHub has a UI, designers etc. that makes Git more accessible, but it's also easy to move to Gitlab
    - There are also problems with decentralization by design, KFG tries to not buy into either dogma and find a balance between centralization and decentralization
- BitTorrent is a decentralized thing that's easy to use
    - Easy for us, but not necessarily for laypeople
    - KFG had a lot of assumptions about how "smart" users were that had to be unlearned
- KFG has discovered that it's good to have a technical protocol available for people who want to dive into it, but also have a centralized version available for laypeople
- Travis shared a spreadsheet of open infrastructure pieces tagged by urgency and barrier to entry (high, low, medium)

## Brainstorming Process

- We described our current brainstorming process
- Kriti's favorite ideas:
    - Data scraping & manipulation for laypeople
    - Openly licensed content search
    - Distributed social network
- Brent's favorite ideas (in addition):
    - Reverse Reddit
- How will the project be organized over the next two years?
    - Focus on funding as well as development
        - W.r.t. this, we need to decide what metrics we should think about early (userbase size vs. userbase impact, etc.)
    - Funding could be from users or foundations or somewhere else, but definitely focus on sustainability.
- Ideal way to partner with KFG: identify ways or products that KFG and our team wants to build and how they overlap.
    - Travis will get the rest of the team into the `#open-search` Slack channel
    - Partnership on building public digital infrastructure will take a lot of work, let's be intentional on figuring out what overlap there is and who is doing it.
    - KFG is looking for institutional partners.

## Reverse Reddit
- Academia
    - Academia is looking for Reddit as peer review on preprints
    - CrossRef is a solution to this, not model organization, slow, has flaws
    - Could build on top of that
    - Content registry in a community, filter down based on parameters
    - Directly interacts with KFG work and interests
- Can apply to any article, not just academia
- Maybe start with scientists

## Build Your Own Search
- Start with automated data scraper as a standalone product
- Lots of ways to chunk up this problem, not clear where the lines are
- Underlay could be a common protocol that underpins many of these tools
- Bring down Google by building a whole new ecosystem of how search works, bespoke search for different use cases
    - Good fundraising pitch
- Other intermediate step: fiddle with search algorithm ranking (not just filters)
    - ElasticSearch indexing being dynamic is hard to solve technically, but we could try some form of precomputation or approximation
    - Investigate Postgres text search, not scalable like Elasticsearch in Travis's experience
    - May not need to be scalable for smaller search engines
    - Prior Art archive did 100,000 rows, but each row had 25-50 pages of text, performance was not good
