---
title: 2023-02-01 Team Meeting
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-05-11T14:44:21.735Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-01T17:16:51.069Z
---

## GSoC Project Ideas & Next Steps
### Notes
- GSoC deadline: Tue, Feb 7
- Aim to complete project idea documentation by Friday, Feb 3
- Ideas that won't impact team's workflow and won't interfere with other important tasks should be prioritized. 
- List of ideas can be found in the [email thread](https://mail.google.com/mail/u/1/popout?ver=1sldpqjesrv59&search=inbox&th=%23thread-f%3A1756012743197359541&cvid=1)
- In general, we should research the ideas from an architecture stand-point to make it easier for contributors.
- Consider the ROI of educating the interns against the value of the output. How much time we invest / what do we get?
- Dom thinks we should try out things (be more experimental) in the projects so that we learn from them.
    - We decided against this because the program is aimed at beginners and it's better to have clear outcomes.
- Anish likes the concept of extending current features/work
- Anish thinks people will have a preference for easier projects
- Goal is to end up with 10-20 ideas on the wiki for GSoC
- For project ideas, use the template on the wiki.

### Current Ideas & Feedback

#### Moving type inference to SQL (declined)

Brent: We have to be aware of pre-requisites that we have to do internally before an intern can take on this. Once we know how to resolve the pre-requisite it will be ok, otherwise it might be frustrating. Advice is to not do it.

Mukesh: Agrees with Brent on the pre-requisites. Interns will need to understand a lot about the codebase. It might take months.

Anish: most difficult part would be figuring out where the feature fits in product-wise and code-wise.

#### Casting functions parallelizable

Mukesh: This might be suitable as it requires less understanding of the codebase.

Brent: We have a lot of casting functions, and they are inherently complicated. A deeper understanding might be required.

#### Table splitting / column logic to DB (declined)

Same as type inference challenges

#### JSON UI experience

Pavish: It will involve work on the editor, and could increase front-end size. We cannot afford to do that now as it will require architectural work on the front-end.

Sean: Not worried about increase in size of bundle. Doesn't think it will be architecturally challenging. 

Brent: Depends on the scope

#### Importing data into existing tables UI

*No feedback.*

#### Adding summarization functions

Brent: Concerned about this being too easy. Might not last enough to cover all summer. 

#### Kanban view

Pavish: This will take lots of product decisions, discussions, lots of implementation time. Estimate: 6 months, if multiple internal people are doing it. We don't currently have _any_ visualizations, and that's going to be tough to get started.

#### Dark mode

Sean: This is a good one, goal is clear. We want *dark mode* and people will understand that. 

#### Documenting the component library

Sean and Pavish don't like it.

#### Persisting common UI configuration

Kriti: Concerned about the speccing work required.

Pavish: Don't need to spec architecture, just need to spec requirements.

#### Refactor store systems & preloading

Kriti: Skeptical about giving a task that starts with "Refactor"

Pavish: We'd need to completely spec it out, then just have the intern implement.

#### File attachment datatype

Pavish: It depends on how we want the UX to be. Complexity will depend on how sophisticated the features will be. 

Brent: nervous if we want front and back end.

#### Location data type

Pavish: complexity depends on UX.

Brent: nervous if we want front and back end.

Mukesh: Concerned about how quickly we might need this and if we should wait before working on this.

#### Realtime collaboration

Too big (Brent, Kriti, others agree)

#### Share tables/explorations publicly

Kriti: If we do this, avoid architectural changes
Mukesh: worried about making it indexable


#### Read-only DB views

If we make the product & UX decisions, this would be an easy / nice intern project (Pavish, Brent agree)

### Nominated Projects
After feedback, here are projects we think are worthwhile + the person assigned to writing them up on the wiki.

- JSON editing
    - Sean
- Dark mode
    - Sean
- Importing data into existing UI
    - Pavish
- UI config
    - Pavish
- Location data type
    - Mukesh
- Casting functions parallelizable
    - Dom
- Kanban 
    - Rajat
    - May not do this depending on concerns raised after Rajat writes up idea
- DB view support
    - Brent
- API documentation
    - Mukesh
- Summarization
    - Brent

We need more to get to 10-20 ideas total. Everyone is encouraged to write up project ideas. Our discussion today should help with figuring out what kinds of ideas are viable.

### Next steps
- People assigned to specific projects will write wiki pages on them by Friday
    - Use the template
- New project ideas should also be put in the wiki by Friday
- Kriti will review ideas on Friday and provide feedback, revisions as needed

## Launch plans & update
### Notes

- Quick update from Kriti:
    - Website is done, will implement feedback and illustrations
    - Usability testing on website done, usability testing on product in progress
    - Output of product usability testing will be list of potential changes before launch
    - Important: Users and Permissions
    - Important: Installation and Upgrade
    - Set a launch date once we understand the feedback of usability testing (and the resulting scope of needed changes).
    - Demo video is progressing
- Hoping to launch in 3rd week of Feb.
- People are concerned about 3rd week of Feb. launch date.
    - Too much work.
    - Working with potential GSoC contributors is eating up time.
- After launch, we need a process to iterate quickly based on feedback. We'll need to discuss how to move faster.
    - Defer conversation until launch.
