---
title: 2022-11-28 planning meeting
description: 
published: true
date: 2022-11-28T23:39:51.853Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-11-28T23:39:51.853Z
---

**Attendees**: Entire core team + Anish

## Cycle 5 retrospective

### Notes
- [FigJam file with everyone's notes](https://www.figma.com/file/cO8xRZAy3Rikfr3N74xySu/Cycle-5-retrospective?node-id=0%3A1&t=7JademQ4pe11qlgB-0) (link is not public)
- 126 items closed!
- Many shoutouts!
- Styling work bleeding into feature work will hopefully smooth out once design and styling are less global. 
	- Styling work was badly named, it involved usability improvements as well
	- Not much to learn from for the next cycle, seems like a one-time problem
- We agreed on removing issue priorities for features – lower priority issues will be moved out of the milestone instead
- Design decisions are being made without enough context, sometimes leads to overthinking things
    - not sure who our users are
    - leads to difficulty when deciding complexity of feature
    - Especially tricky for link table dialogue
    - Hopefully access to users helps with this problem
    - This should be our last cycle without access to users

## Cycle 6 planning

### Work tracking
We're going to be tracking work in Mathesar! [Here's the relevant table](https://staging.mathesar.org/mathesar_tables/3/tables/12454), [grouped by due date and assignee](https://staging.mathesar.org/mathesar_tables/3/tables/12454#W1sxLDUwMF0sW10sW1s3OTkwMF0sWzYyMjI5XV0sWyJhbmQiLFtdXV0)

- As always, the "Assignee" is the owner, responsible for making sure the task gets finished and coordinating with whoever they need to.
    - Don't have to implement everything, but do have to coordinate
- We now have due dates for each task (or rather, "due weeks", they're all Fridays)
	- Use it for tracking estimates
	- Due date => due week. More granular dates will be too much to manage. 
	- Due date in the planning sheet is also for prioritization and time-boxing tasks so that there's enough time for later tasks.
	- Implementers should update dates in Mathesar after this call.
- New "Requirements" tasks in Mathesar, this is equivalent to a product spec. Rest of the team should start getting into requirements.
    - Deliverable is descriptions of
        - how the feature will work
        - design work required
        - backend work required
        - frontend work required
    - Kriti will work with the assignees and help 
    - Attempting to make things less dependent on Kriti
- If you see something in the First Release milestone that doesn't seem relevant, please kick it to a later milestone.
- Work Type: Styling => implementing the designs. Work Type: Frontend => non-styling.
	- Most of the bugs will be fixed as part of the re-design. Lets keep then as 0% until the re-designs are done. 
	- If a new feature needs to be styled, it's "Frontend" work, not "Styling" work

### Accountability
We need to be accountable for estimates and communicate proactively about delays in work. 
- If you estimate that work will be done in X days and it's not done by then and you haven't communicated why it's taking longer, you come across as unreliable
- Optimism doesn't help us plan, and doesn't help us identify problems
    - If something is taking much longer than planned, we might need to change the plan
- It's better to under-promise & over-deliver
- Takeaways:
    - Make better estimates (include buffer)
    - Communicate proactively in the core-team email list if things are going to take longer
        - Explain why
        - Request help if needed
        - Request change of plan if needed
    - Try to think of due date as a time box
        - reduce scope to fit due date (preferable to moving due date)
- Brent brought up that due date should come from bottom up, not top down
	- Current due dates are meant as a starting point, implementers should update these to what they feel they can meet
	- We discussed the idea of setting due dates to `NULL` unless the implementer can commit to them, but the issue is that many of our tasks are defined vaguely and can consume whatever time they're given
	- Due dates are meant as a time box – e.g. we have a week for live demo work. We could spend a month refining data sets for the live demo, but whatever we can do in a week is probably good enough and that time would be better spent on other release blocking tasks. The due date is meant to convey that.
	- We're open to other ideas that solve the same problems, but we couldn't think of any at the meeting.

## Coming up in 2023
We've been working towards the release for so long, and we're almost there! Here's what's coming up next.

- First week of January
  - Publicize our release on Hacker News & Reddit
  - Plan out Cycle 2023-01
- **Jan 9 - Feb 3**: Cycle 2023-01 (4 weeks) with the goals of:
  - Get our codebase in shape for rapidly iterating on new features and regular releases
      - Includes new git workflow setup (we should start treating `master` as stable and work off of `develop`)
  - Get our community work organized to deal with (hopefully) a bunch of new users
      - Includes applying for GSoC 2023
  - Get on the same page as a team about the plan for 2023
      - Brainstorm Mathesar long term vision, business plan, and pitch to funders
      - Plan for sustainabiliy 
	      - setting up SaaS version
	      - offering services / consulting
	      - philanthropic funding to cover costs until self-sustainable
      - 2023 feature roadmap – should be fairly flexible and based on user needs
- Feb / Mar 2023: start pitching potential funders
	- Kriti is already doing a bunch of groundwork for this