---
title: Vishal Punwani
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-04-19T21:27:35.371Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-04-19T20:22:11.865Z
---

# Vishal Punwani meeting notes

**Date**: 2021-02-04  
**Attendees**: Kriti, Brent, Vishal

- Introduce ourselves & the project
- Learn about Vishal and Sophya
    - It's a shame that we don't have mechanisms to ingest data in a usable way for different students to aid on any student's journey
        - Spotify has solved this for music, recommendation algorithms, data on listeners
        - applying machine learning to everyday problems
            - Amazon – how to buy better
            - problems have been solved are very non-important, like how to buy better
        - educational resources can raise socioeconomic resources (from personal experience)
        - now it's less of an access problem, more of a guided learning problem
            - several hundreds of millions of people have done this already (learning)
        - analyze how people learn, use data to help people learn, recommend what to learn next
            - building agents to guide them - pie in the sky
            - but simple recommendations work too
    - Sophya built tools for students to help them reach the goals they wanted to reach with the material
        - "I need to finish school and get a good grade" - 95% of people study for outcome, not love of learning
        - first set of users = medical school related
        - suite of tools helped them retain information
            - e.g. writing on video tool
    - Working on building tools that help incentivize students to give up data
    - Short term:
        - are we solving day-to-day problems
        - need access to help with learning day-to-day
        - How to create strong memories
            - inspiration for video annotation
    - Solve littler problem, incentivize them to use the platform, get data to solve bigger problems
        - Just submitted paper that showed 6% improvement in grades for medical information
        - data on validated patterns of study that worked
    - Trying to use ML to deterimine what patterns lead to success.
- Vish demonstrated Sophya learn

## Questions
- Where are there opportunities for open source in learning management?
    - everyone wants to create silos, leads to fragmented datasets
        - wikipedia is great because it's made for contributors and people are incentivized to contribute
        - moodle, canvas, etc. are made for institutions
            - people don't contribute to the knowledge graph
    - One reason for crappy systems is that people want to create silos
        - Open source lets stakeholders drive the direction (?)
- In your opinion, is discovery of good learning resources a problem?
    - similar to silo-ing
    - learners go to all sorts of diff websites like wikipedia, khan academy, pluralsight, youtube
    - Google results are not qualified for the individuals, just in terms of backlinks
        - discovery needs to be personalized
    - When someone wants to learn, they end up bouncing around from site to site
    - People don't care about discovery unless it's helping with achieving an outcome.
    -    https://www.pluralsight.com/
- In your opinion, is it a problem that people would like to achieve a certain goal, but don't know all the skills they need to to get to it?
    - hyperlearners are not the usual use case
    - training speed would be slow
    - Suggests solving problems for the masses first, rather than focusing on autodidacts.

## didn't get to these
- Would a knowledge graph of learning resources mapped to topics be useful?
- Do you have any insights on why people give up learning?
- Competitors (or products that have shut down)?
- Potential pitfalls
- What do do you think we need to get right to be successful?
- Where can we find initial users?
- Who else should we talk to about this?
- How would you like to be involved?
