---
title: David Eigen & Kristi Clay
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-04-19T21:28:54.658Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-04-19T20:21:36.932Z
---

# David Eigen & Kristi Clay meeting

**Date**: 2021-02-02  
**Attendees**: Kriti, Brent, David, Kristi

## Introductions
- Introduce ourselves and the health dashboard project
    - Cryptocurrency
        - Contributing modules = mining
        - The more modules are used, the more you earn
        - How do you incentivize open source to be adopted?
- David, P5HV, case management platform
    - ALS, Neurological good test areas because people listen
    - Left hedge fund to focus on building infrastructure to help patients figure out what to take (personalized health advice)
- Kristi
    - practicing chiropracter for years
    - Seems interested in homeopathy in general
    - multiidisciplinary, qiqong, massage
    - child has ALL(?), atypical trajectory (much better)
- How do we use this tool to help doctors, especially in low socioeconomic areas?
- Neurodegenerative patients
    - Instructed to create a word doc to keep track of all their data; medical system won't take care of it for them
- When folks have a diagnosis, they start to learn more about it than doctors (sometimes)
- There's a huge need for this; the population needs help keeping track of this info
    - They need help making correlations 
    - They need help archiving
    - They need help prioritizing
    - With COVID, they have different concepts of how they want to own the info
        - noticing giant holes, people want more control
- Clinical data should be placed alongside user input data
    - Large drive to capture personal information via wearables etc. is fantastic, but clinical data is really useful
- With COVID, medical data is becoming more electronic very quickly
    - One patient had 3 3-ring binders full of information
- Still a large amount of historical data available only in paper form
- Get Kristi, Mark ? from Cleveland Clinic, etc. and get them to agree on an intake form
    - Integrative medicine often has a questionnaire when you come in
- Ultimate goal is not masses of data, commmonalities between data
    - Diet
    - HRV
- Detoxification pathways are important, same diet but different genetics manifests differently
- For some cases, the intake could be 7-8 pages, but for standard GP it's much shorter
- For "backwards" thinking (i.e., patient-side), you need a large "intake form".
- Seem positive on starting with migranes, then generalizing
- 

## Questions
- What gaps or opportunities do you see in the personalized health market?
    - Depends on who you're talking about
        - Patients want to come in and help themselves get better, then leave the app
        - For practitioners, it may be more difficult
    - Agrees that starting with migranes makes sense
    - Need to get some prominent doctor involved
        - Politics will help there
        - A couple of high-profile doctors using the tool can make or break
    - Need to track the improvement for evidence of effect
        - adds credibility
        - This drives adoption
    - Even within medical institution, many different beliefs
        - e.g. Cleveland Clinic heart dept has better outcome than cancer dept (who don't take into account nutrition)
- Are there other projects in this space who've tried this before or currently exist?
    - There's a group "Patients like me"
        - https://www.patientslikeme.com/
    - Kelly Turner
        - Looked at a bunch of cancer cases
        - Found common factors that are correlated with outcomes
    - Terry Wahls(?)
    - Reyna Al Karubi (sp?)
        - Joi knows her
        - Facial recognition - disease
        - Image processing of different samples
    - Viome (?), stool samples + metabolites
- In your opinion, what is the hardest thing we'll need to solve to make this project a success?
- What pitfalls or sticking points should we watch out for?
    - Needs to be very adaptive
        - Need different perspectives from opposing views in the medical field
        - 
    - Take complex cases, host debates, let experts from around the world annotate
    - Advice from advisors: theoretical physicists are good moderators because they're really open, see links between things and won't let a single expert dominate
- What do do you think we need to get absolutely right to be successful?
    - Make sure you stay open to different perspectives and philosophies
    - MDs vs. DOs vs. chiropracters vs. naturopaths have different philosophies from their training
    - AMA is loudest voice in US, takes a very particular approach, diagnosis and treatment
    - Many do not look far enough back in history, holisticly
    - Wearables will give you kinesthetics, which is a great place to start, but there are many other types of data that will give you data to prevent diagnosis
    - Seems like it's a good idea to try to collect historical data before the diagnosis.
    - Functional medicine practitioner takes the best of all pieces of information and collates by hand (wearables, lab reports, CT scans)
        - Could be a good in
    - Store everything!
    - Dental data is very important
- Who should we talk to about this?
    - https://drhyman.com/ (Mark Hyman, head of integrative health at Cleveland Clinic)
    - How do we get to doctors? Patient groups?
        - Ask doctors for advice, don't tell them what you want ahead of time
            - Architecting the app
            - Involve a high-status doctor early, they'll advocate
        - Stroke their ego
- How would you like to be involved?
    - Happy to help in the future
