---
title: Tateki Matsuda
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-04-19T21:27:20.458Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-04-19T20:22:18.746Z
---

# Tateki Matsuda meeting notes

Jitsi problem:  Firefox 85.0 MacOS
**Date**: 2021-02-05  
**Attendees**: Kriti, Brent, Tateki

- Introduce ourselves
- Learn more about Tateki
    - Professional MMA fighter
    - MS in sports nutrition
    - Private health consultant for Joi
        - holistic treatment, not just nutrition and exercise
        - shares wearable data with Tateki and Tateki gives appropriate advice (e.g. light workout today)
- Introduce the project

## Questions

- Do you have any health goals? For example, lose weight, have fewer migraines, stay active, better mood?
    - no pain no gain, take advantage of technology that makes me smarters
    - after I beat up my body, my sleep quality went way down which is bad for professional atheletes
    - can improve sleep over long run, it's hard to recover quickly
    - Know how to fix the sleep quality based on expertise
    - Sleep quality is a goal
    - Concerned about blue light exposure
        - wears glasses, uses software
    - Social media causes envy
    - Cold showers, meditation, breathing are good for everyone
- How do you track your progress related to health and health goals?
	- What apps/wearables do you use?
	    - Oura ring
	        - Joi is an early investor
	        - respiration rate, HRV
	    - Whoop
	    - both measure stress level, heart rate, other physiological conditions
        - Both send data to companies, which analyze
            - green/red/yellow light to measure current level on app
        - Main thing is Heart Rate Variability
            - Irregular = bad (stressed)
        - Also detects sleep quality
    - right after you wake up, you listen to your body
        - Joi transformed completely a few years ago
        - helped him visualize what's going on, make incremental changes
        - e.g. correlate alcohol to sleep quality
    - you can see your own output, workout correlated with calories
        - combine with CO2 level measuring machines to see if you're in a burning fat state
    - Mindfulness vs recommendations
        - Seems to be more about giving information
- Is there anything about your health that you wish you understood better?
    - There's a high-end device that tracks blood sugar levels for a whole week
        - This is more fine-grained than the finger prick once and awhile
        - blood glucose levels can identify issues
            - stressful meetings can cause spikes
    - I can't keep the oura ring on when I punch or when playing baseball
        - whoop can't deal with aggresive movement of arms well
    - There might not be many people wearing more than one device; this means you'll be subject to any innaccuracy in a specific device
- Can we automate the recommendations that Tateki makes?
    - Oura's red/yellow/green light
    - Corporate wellness would be a good application
    - Answers just from data could be very general
        - should wake up at same time
        - drink less
        - etc.
    - Not just wearables
        - Hair, saliva, blood, pee can be used to check physiological state
            - food allergy
            - mineral balance
- How happy are you with the current ways you track your health?
    - I don't believe the device 100% 
        - Just makes me smarter
        - Notices discrepencies between the devices
        - Oura is more reliable than Whoop
    - Some people lie about their state, try to be "strong", say they're feeling better than they do
        - Data helps with that
    - Don't depend on the wearables and freak out that you don't know your physiological state 
- Do you use Apple Health or Google Fit?
    - Oura syncs with apple health
    - Devices sync with Apple Health
    - Whoop doesn't sync with it (not sure)
    - Doesn't use Apple Health otherwise
    - Not too many people crazy about Apple Health
    - Not impressed with current state
- What metrics do you currently track about your health?
    - Oura and Whoop
    - Blood glucose and ketone level through blood samples
    - ketone level
    - Checks breath for nutrients
    - Allergy test kits, hormones, microbiome tests, and so.
        - Only uses occasionally
    - Does not track calories
        - Calories in/out matters a bit, but depends on insulin resistance
- Do you have any concerns about the privacy and security of the data you track via apps?
    - Not too worried; (or at least not functionally worried)
        - Is somewhat concerned.  E.g., doesn't want to share 23 and Me because it's owned by Google
    - Big companies could purchase Oura and Whoop
        - integrate sensors into Apple Watch, would make it more
- Do you have access to your hospital or doctor online?
    - I do
    - Frustrations:
        - The data is very general
            - e.g. "normal ranges" are very broad, testosterone levels between 250-850 are considered "normal" and not a problem, but 300 is a problem and should be fixed
            - things are only flagged as problems if they are causing physiological issues (e.g. reproductive issues)
        - Seems like the data is there, but the recommendations are not specific enough.
- Initial reaction to health dashboard idea
    - Amazing
    - Sounds like digital infra that we discussed previously
    - Currently in the market
        - Oura
        - Whoop (major player)
        - BioStrap
        - Apple Watch (ability is inferior to Whoop because Whoop is focused on doing one thing well)
        - FitBit (not mentioned)
- Do you think the health dashboard could be useful to you / people you know?
    - Would you use?  What features?
        - If we could measure the live hormonal levels in the breath level /bloodstream
            - Tech is still in "on paper" stage (as far as we know