---
title: AJP
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-04-19T21:27:50.027Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-04-19T20:22:04.727Z
---

# AJP user interview meeting

**Date**: 2021-02-04  
**Attendees**: Kriti, Brent, AJP

1. How frequently do you look for research materials?
    - "Look for"
        - Varies wildly, not as much as I should
        - Once every other week
    - More frequently follows references in papers
        - At least once a week, 2-4 times usually
    - Sometimes 20 papers a day, sometimes no papers for a couple of weeks
    - Someone says read this, I'll read it
        - Video calls, slack, Twitter, etc. – evenly distributed
    - Paywalls used to be frustrating, but sci-hub solved that
    - I want to explore a given area sometimes
        - More frustrating process
        - Sometimes there's a good review paper, sometime there's a good primary paper
        - Has not explored subscription services
1. What types of research materials do you usually look for?
    - Datasets are most high value and hardest to find
	- Scholarly papers
	- Conference talks and lecture notes are discovered serendipitously through Google
1. What is your process for finding research materials?
    - Someone sends me a paper, they usually send a link
    - When chasing down references,
        - copy title into Google (not Google Scholar)
    - I think I'm moderately bad at finding research
        - Google keywords + "review" to find review papers
        - Lose motivation after 20-30 minutes if I can't find it
    - Would like to find ways to find papers that have "Review" in the title, or that are shared widely on Twitter
    - Depends on the field, some fields are slow moving and it's easy to find papers there, fast moving fields are harder
        - I don't know if there's something even out there that matches what I'm looking for
        - I'd spend 2 hours willingly if I knew there was something out there to find, but it seems like a waste of time even if I'm only 30 minutes in
        - Maybe I could try emailing authors of papers I enjoyed looking for recommendations
    - I have a thing about review papers being the thing I need to find, but I should think about who writes review paper and when and why
        - Review papers are 1 in 100 and they don't cover everything anyway
        - Maybe I should go to the primary sources
    - Review papers don't move fast enough
1. Where/how do you discuss research materials with others?
    - Fantastic question
    - At an academic lab, ad hoc over lunch or in the lab, paper reading sessions
    - When drafting a paper or reviewing papers, we might discuss it
    - At the moment, very different
        - I'm not in a team of diagnostics people, fairly by myself at CCI
        - Slack, video calls (ad hoc)
        - Actually pretty similar
    - I'm contributing to this iso group, discuss there
        - don't know everyone very well
    - On social media
    - Sharing with family, discussing, correcting misconception
    - Google Group, other slack channels
    - Mostly discuss with people I already know, but iso group/Twitter/google group/slack has people I don't know
    - Is the process satisfactory for you?
        - Different objectives:
            - self-understanding
            - helping others understand
                - expert vs. non-expert
            - sometimes pride and ego, but rare
        - Self understanding:
            - Usually expectations are set low, so it's always successful, any help is success
        - Helping others:
            - often very frustrated with non-experts
            - with experts, it's usually fine
            - it might take a while, defining terms, explaining everything, typing everything is clunky
            - a lot of poor conversations are based on conflicting basic assumptions
                - e.g. lockdown definitions were not that same and people only realized that 45 min into 60 min call
            - text is shit
                - context, nuance, nonverbal cues is harder
    - Is more discussion something you want?
        - when reading a paper, immediately I have a lot of emotions and I don't want to discuss it
            - once I've calmed down, maybe I'd like to discuss them
        - papers should be able to be versioned and updated
            - PDFs feel like immutable objects
            - PDFs can be easily annotated
            - can't annotate images using hypothes.is
            - video annotating would be useful too
        - I want more discussion about content I write, not content other people write
            - I talk to people about content I write to solve that problem
1. How often do you need the ability to find papers that a given paper cites?
    - Often (covered above)
    - I can't follow references with one click
	- Everyone should use DOIs
1. How often do you need the ability to find papers that cite a given paper?
    - Don't know how to do that
1. How often do you read a paper and investigate further to help you decide whether the paper is trustworthy?
    - Very rarely if trustworthy is intentional malice
    - I don't believe almost any paper, I only trust things I read in a few different papers
        - I need to see claims verified by a few different people using different processes
        - too many biases - publication etc.
        - I make my language less sure, e.g. instead of taking a fact as given, I say "there's one study that asserts blah"
    - COVID - people are rushing to get research out
    - A lot of biomedical research is wrong
        - people can't reproduce their own experiments
    - I don't have enough time to investigate papers with all the work on my plate
        - even if I have more time, it's not a great use of my time
        - depends on the project and the research
    - Only do research when talking to people on social media because I have a responsibility to get things right
    - Early on in COVID, more research was needed due to lack of information
	- What factors do you use to determine whether a paper is trustworthy?
	    - Journal helps
	        - Quality of writing, diagrams, data, synthesis of arguments is usually better
        - A few authors from different places
            - Institutional affiliation of author
        - Biased against certain countries
1. Have you tried to determine the origin of an assertion in a scholarly work?
	- I would love to have better tools to do this.
	- I give myself an F on doing this currently.
	- Would be good for Wikipedia or someone else to do this. 
1. How often have you tried to determine whether a result had been replicated?
    - Yes!
    - Super hard for biological areas.
        - Most people don't even include all the information needed to have the same experimental setup.
        - Even if a robot does the same experiment, hard to control for things like temperature etc.
    - High bar for replication.
    - Haven't even seen a single paper that replicates another one.
1. How often have you tried to find a result to replicate?
    - Doesn't apply for the two fields I'm in now, and the previous field was too abstract.
1. Is there anything else you'd like to add?
    - Would really like to see all of knowledge broken down into assertions referenced to evidence (observations)
        - experimental setups for observations are necessary
        - move away from snapshots of papers like we do currently and go towards a knowledge graph
    - https://interventions.centerofci.org/pub/structured-sars-2-diagnostic-data/release/1
    - https://github.com/centerofci/anot8