# Karthik Dinakar meeting notes

**Date**: 2021-02-03  
**Attendees**: Kriti, Brent, Karthik

## Questions

1. How frequently do you look for research materials?
    - Reads around 10-15 papers per day since COVID started
    - Uses SciHub to download PDFs on iPad Pro
    - Uses Notability to mark on the PDFs using Apple Pencil
    - If interesting, uploads it on slack or sends it to a person
1. What types of research materials do you usually look for?
	- Mostly papers
	- Data sets (only if working on a paper), not very often
	    - Last year, happened 4-5 times
1. What is your process for finding research materials?
	- What websites or software do you use?
        - Does a scan of NEJM, other journals JAMA
        - Follows interesting research on Twitter, reviews once a day
        - Colleagues will forward interesting papers
        - On desktop, Karthik is signed into MIT library and can download any article
            - Not all Elsevier stuff covered by MIT
        - Have a custom bookmarklet with javascript snippet that opens papers in sci-hub
            - Custom bookmarklet, worked on with Madars
    - Do you ever get frustrated when you're using these tools?
		- If so, what frustrates you?
	- Is there anything that you find cumbersome about the current process? Maybe something that takes more steps that you'd like to take?
	    - Reading a paper and taking notes is not most of the value
	    - For Karthik, most of the value is in discussion with others who have read it.
	    - The discussion is never captured anywhere
	    - Clinical trials are often accompanied by papers in journals
	    - Discussions happen on Twitter
	    - In person conversations - giving a talk and asking questions afterwards is much better
	    - Some discussion on Twitter, but not as rich and some is surface level
	        - Twitter is used for other things
        - Major trials will have panels at conferences (plus 35 min conference talks and 10 min from questions)
        - Some people want doctors to achieve continuing education through Twitter discussions if they engage very deeply with clinical trials
            - Incentive for discussions
        - NE JoM, we could test out with them since we have contacts with them
            - Low tech, just put out PDFs
        - Value of having PDF viewer that can aid in focused conversation, not just shallow comments
        - American Heart Association and American Association of Cardiology would be interested, Karthik knows people there
            - Much better learning experience
        - Journals fight with each other to publish papers, if you can get more engagement by publishing at a certain journal, journals will be incentivized to use the tool
        - Summary of discussion for people who don't want to read the whole thread
            - or people returning to the conversation
            - doctors are really busy, don't have a lot of working memory
        - Multivariate reddit!!
        - This idea gets talked about all the time at cardiology conferences
    - Are there things that you can do with the current tools that you use that you really like?
        - Search and discovery are not the problem to solve
        - MedArXiv, etc.
            - especially since COVID
            - Karthik and Dhaval submitted something to Nature Human Behavior, and their policy changed from embargo to need for uploading to medarXiv
        - Problem is deriving value from what is read
1. How often do you need the ability to find papers that a given paper cites?
    - Very often, very important in Karthik's field to figure out what people are assuming based on other people's assumptions
    - NEJoM - you can't go over 30 citations for certain types of articles
        - trying to get authors to focus really hard on message and cut the flab, not editorializing too much
	- If so, what is your process?
        - don't use any of the reference package managers
        - overleaf latex thing on one screen (bib file)
            - copy reference, paste into google scholar, button called "cite" allows you to paste bibtex format
        - have a folder on notability with pdfs of papers related to a project
        - Uses overleaf, copies the citation
        - would be great to have bibtex formatted list automatically
	- Are any parts of the process irritating for you?
	    - very time consuming
	    - using one archaic markup thing called latex
        - makes me feel like I'm really good at latex and bibtex and putting things together and that's a skill in itself
1. How often do you need the ability to find papers that cite a given paper?
    - Yes, on Google Scholar, "cited by" feature
        - To see if the work that Karthik is thinking about has already been done
        - ordered based on year
    - works pretty well
1. How often do you read a paper and investigate further to help you decide whether the paper is trustworthy?
    - Pretty often
        - see who is on the author list
        - institutional affiliation of author (some institutions put out a higher quality of work usually)
	- Why do you do this?
	    - to decide whether to read the paper
	    - sometimes come back to the paper a while after reading when think of something
	    - combination of verifying claims are true and curiosity
	    - not so much a factor in clinical medicine, but more in CS - ML researchers make outlandish claims about what they can do, but it's based on wild assumptions
	        - limitations, constraints and assumptions are not clearly defined 
        - medicine is very incremental, not many aha moments
            - X trial compared with Y trial
            - meta reviews are different
                - they do a much more careful analysis of all the references, they need to download the data and create a new table and run the meta analysis on all the data gathered
                - time consuming
                - not very valued for tenure track
	- What is your process for investigation?
	    - read the abstract and graphs and tabulations of results
	    - medical papers have a mandatory structure
	    - discussion section is important
	- What information would you like to have, but cannot find?
	    - Discussion
	    - e.g. in India, there are two vaccines based on completely different principles
	        - there was a medarxiv paper on covaccine (homegrown, not astrozeneca vaccine), discussions on Twitter brought up issues even though it looks very interesting
	            - is it something that I need to invest time into at the moment, or something that has too many unanswered questions?
        - e.g. viral inocolum theorem (larger quality ingested of virus = more serious symptoms)
            - unethical to study this directly
            - point is, cannot run clinical trial, assembling literature from other papers and other illnesses (upper respiratory)
            - the evidence wasn't incremental, assembling papers by hand, it's hard to arrange thoughts to sound compelling
            - "viral inoculum" isn't a keyword you can search by
	- What factors do you use to determine whether a paper is trustworthy?
		- Content of the paper? (ususally the abstract and discussion)
		- Author's reputation? (check)
		- Institution (check)
- Data sharing is nonexistent in clinical medicine, no one wants to share their data
    - Life sciences is a very different persona type from CS
    - Figurehead for everything that's wrong in scientific publishing
