---
title: November 2021 meeting notes
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-11-30T15:42:11.231Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-11-29T14:36:10.948Z
---

# 2021-11-30

**Topic**: "State of Mathesar": Mathesar progress and workflow check in.
**Attendees**: Brent, Dominykas, Ghislaine, Kriti, Mukesh, Pavish, Sean

Meeting notes follow.

## Alpha release goals & timeline

### Goals
The goal for the alpha release is to demonstrate the value proposition of Mathesar:
- Works with existing databases
- Provides great UX for the features implemented
- Explains concepts to non-technical users without hiding or oversimplifying
- Data modeling flexibility
- Collaboration with other users
- User documentation about installing and using Mathesar
    - explain new schema installation

We want to implement enough features for users to be able to handle a simple inventory case. 

### Roadmap & Timeline

Here's the timeline as I see it (reflected on our [Roadmap](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/milestones?direction=asc&sort=due_date&state=open)):

| Milestone | Timeframe | Dates | Notes |
|-|-|-|-|
| Tables & Data Types | 4 weeks | Nov 29 - Jan 14 | Timing includes CCI winter break |
| Views & Data Modeling  | 8 weeks | Jan 17 - Mar 11 | 
| Multiple Databases & User Management | 4 weeks | Mar 14 - Apr 8 |
| Collaboration (Sharing) & Improved Editing | 4 weeks | Apr 11 - May 6 |
| UX Improvements & Deployment (Pre-Launch) | 3 weeks | May 9 - 27 |

These are estimates.

Notes:
- I've moved "Bulk Operations on Records" to beta from alpha.
- I created a new milestone for UI styling.
- Consider aiming at a specific Normal Form for data modeling milestone.
- Pavish has some ideas for data modeling UX, will share closer.

### Discussion
- We should be aiming to release an alpha as soon as possible. Can we shorten the above timeline?
    - Data Modeling could be moved to later, doesn't seem essential
        - Useful for CSV import flow
        - Demonstrates value proposition for Mathesar, not present in similar tools
    - Multiple databases and user management can be post-alpha.
        - Allow user to configure database from frontend in alpha.
    - Collaboration can be moved out too.
- When should we do UI styling - sooner or later? 
    - After views
- Kriti will update the roadmap after the call to move a bunch of stuff to post-alpha
- After tables, data types, views are done:
    - Go through entire user and installer end to end flow and implement what we need to
    - Write documentation
- Separate launch milestone
- We won't have a formal timeline, but we should be able to ship sooner if we only focus on tables, data types, and views before moving on to alpha release prep.

### Alpha Launch Plan
- Write documentation
- Show HN
- ProductHunt
- Find people active on Twitter / Reddit
- Find users through CCI network and set up Mathesar servers for them
- Mukesh can find users 
- Online conferences
- Google Summer of Code etc.
- Keep track of stories of people using Mathesar to help with funding

## Long term vision for Mathesar
The alpha release is probably going to look like a database GUI but that is not our eventual goal. Mathesar is an ambitious product and we should all be on the same page about what we're aiming to do.

- Help users "make sense" of data without knowing much.
  - e.g. import data from other services and get insights from it immediately
  - e.g. suggest improvements based on analyzing patterns automatically
- Allow users to learn and explore, learning more about databases and data analysis. 
- Extendable by users through plugins and automation.

## Workflow
- GitHub Project workflow
    - sync between labels and status is one-way:
        - update the label, not the status (this should update the status)
    - Make sure to update "active" when appropriate to avoid over running others' work.
- Comms Assignee
    - https://wiki.mathesar.org/en/team/guide/comms-assignee
- Weekly Discussion
    - moved to Monday
    - It's totally okay if there's nothing notable to report on each week
    - It's nice to see what other people are doing that week
- Standup
    - Dependencies is helpful
    - Helpful to see what people are working on to see if input is needed
    - Completed section is not always informative for long running tasks
        - Focus on the part of the task that is completed or new requirements uncovered
    - Useful to coordinate frontend

## Communication
- Product and design review process
- Code architecture and spec process
- Issues
- Matrix vs. GitHub discussions
    - GitHub discussions notifications are lackluster
    - Tag people in discussions more
    - Notify others in Matrix that you've started a discussion

We're out of time, please provide feedback on communication async.

We should have a State of Mathesar meeting every month, it's useful.
    - Consider inviting community eventually (--Brent)

# 2021-11-23

Please see [2021-11-23 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/840) on GitHub Discussions.

# 2021-11-17

Please see [2021-11-17 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/829) on GitHub Discussions.

# 2021-11-11

Please see [2021-11-11 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/820) on GitHub Discussions.

# 2021-11-02

Please see [2021-11-02 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/794) on GitHub Discussions.