---
title: September 2022 meeting notes
description: 
published: true
date: 2022-09-07T16:14:46.536Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-09-02T17:39:39.178Z
---

# 2022-09-07 demo video readiness
**Attendees**: Kriti, Ghislaine, Pavish, Brent, Rajat (partial), Sean (partial)  

- Demo should start with the Database page.
- Database page design should be updated to include user onboarding elements. 
    - Each schema should include a count of tables and explorations
    - Public schema will have a default description that might not be helpful for users.
        - From a product perspective we'd like users to create a new schema
    - New schema action should be more prominent
    - We need to design for various states:
        - Empty public schema
        - Public schema with tables

We switched to taking notes [directly on the storyboard](https://www.figma.com/file/F0FmNaNz8hvrgxPax3Bix1/Cycle-3-storyboard?node-id=2%3A57) at this point.

## GitHub issue
We created a GitHub issues with todos to do before the next meeting.

Please see https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/1604

## Live demo issues
We won't be handling this just yet, but making notes so we don't forge
- error handling checking and improvements in the backend

## Next steps
- Work on https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/1604
- Next meeting on Wednesday
- We'll continue going through the storyboard and creating todos until we do a first pass of the full storyboard
- Then we'll go through and do a second pass on the storyboard


# 2022-09-02 Record Summaries in Data Explorer

* **Topic**: Record summaries in Data Explorer
* **Participants**: Brent, Mukesh, Pavish, Sean
* **Time**: ~90 minutes

The discussion split into the following sub-topics:
1. If, and if so, how should Record Summaries be displayed in Data Explorer.
2. What should the default aggregation be, when the user clicks on the Summarize option after grouping a table, as per screen 31 and 32 of our [storyboard figjam file](https://www.figma.com/file/F0FmNaNz8hvrgxPax3Bix1/Cycle-3-reference).
3. Storyboard ordering for the Demo video.
4. Allowing operations across schemas in Mathesar.

### 1. If, and if so, how should Record Summaries be displayed in Data Explorer.

**When a user adds the id column of a table in the Data Explorer, should we show the id direcly as an integer or should we show a Record Summary?**
  * Arguments supporting keeping id columns as integers and not showing Record Summary
    - Data Explorer is meant to allow the user form any query structure they want, and there are valid usecases where we may want to directly display the id, even if not the most common.
    - Users can add any column they want in the Data Explorer, which would make the purpose of Record Summaries moot within Data Explorer.
    - Internally, calculting Record Summaries requires running a query. In this case, we'd run a query within a query, which isn't performant.
  * Arguments supporting showing Record Summaries as they shown are in tables
    - It would appear & function similar to tables maintaining uniformity across the product.
    - From the user standpoint, they can always expect the same behaviour, avoids confusion.
    - Users can configure templates for Record Summaries however they want, which can include additional text. We don't want them repeating it everything they create an Exploration, with an additional transformation.
  * **Decision**
    - We show the Record Summary in Data Explorer.
    - However, we have an option to toggle it, in the column properties pane.
    - Since the user can add the same column multiple times, they can add the 'id' column which will show the Record Summary, and they can add it again as a new column and toggle summaries to be 'off' and that will show an integer.
    - We arrived at this after a lot of to-and-fro discussing several alternatives, we didn't document them.
    - This will be hard to implement and we'd prefer not to do it for the live demo (and preferably the initial release even).
  * **Next Steps**
    - Since we cannot complete implementing Record Summaries for the demo video, we started Discussion #2 to figure out how we handle the summarization scenario from the storyboard.

### 2. What should the default aggregation be, when the user clicks on the Summarize option after grouping a table, as per screen 31 and 32 of our [storyboard figjam file](https://www.figma.com/file/F0FmNaNz8hvrgxPax3Bix1/Cycle-3-reference).

* Option1: **We select a single additional column and aggregate it to count**.
	- Needs no additional work.
  - The fastest solution to the problem.
  - All of us in the call were in favour of it.
  
* Option 2: **If we have to show the columns aggregated to list, how would we do it?**.
	- We identify the columns that are used in Record Summary, and select them in the query instead of the id columns.
  - When the user summarizes the checkouts table, they will see a list of patron first names, and last names (considering these are the columns used by Record Summary) in the Data Explorer results. The id column will not be part of the query's initial columns.
  - This will provide them with similar information to Record Summaries.
  - This is the quickest way of implementing list aggregation for this user scenario, without needing Record Summaries.

* **Decision & Next steps**
	- This is a product level decision.
  - Brent and Pavish will discuss this on the upcoming 'Demo video readiness check-in call' on Tuesday (2022-09-06).
  
### 3. Storyboard ordering for the Demo video.

The previous discussion yielded another one on the user flow in the demo video. We introduce Data Explorer in Storyboard screens 31 and 32 through summarizing a grouped table result.
* Summarization is not the best way to introduce Data Explorer since it involves several configurations being displayed to the user, which may come across as Data Explorer being hard to use or unintuitive.
* The primary usecase of the Data Explorer is to be able to join tables together. Our UX is designed to make this usecase the simplest operation. It would be better if we started with this.
* We can include summarization & navigating via grouped table result after we first introduce Data Explorer with simpler flows.
* All of us in the call were in agreement with this.
* **Next steps**
	- Brent and Pavish will discuss this on the upcoming 'Demo video readiness check-in call' on Tuesday (2022-09-06).
  
### 4. Allowing operations across schemas in Mathesar.

We took some liberty discussing bugs when this came into question, which resulted from the discrepancy in scoping queries between the backend and the frontend.
* Currently queries on the backend are not scoped within a Schema. They exist directly under the Database level.
* The UX treats Schemas to be the parent of Queries.
* This is a product level discussion.
* **Next steps**
	- Sean will send a mail regarding this.
  
