---
title: March 2022 meeting notes
description: 
published: true
date: 2022-03-07T20:14:35.991Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-03-01T15:12:30.780Z
---

# Asynchronous discussions
- [2022-03-07 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/1142)

# 2022-03-01

## Display options Discussion

Sync call to discuss about display options validation especially around `datetime`, based on [Matrix Discussion](https://matrix.to/#/!UZILDSNKobkelUYwBp:matrix.mathesar.org/$vY0BFdwHvKT-9NcKJ8-y7cZSmQ0QsOlJGg4piJN4fYA?via=matrix.mathesar.org)

- **Participants:** Kriti, Pavish, Mukesh, Dominykas, Sean

### Notes

- Validation
    - We do generally want display options to be validated by the backend.
    - For datetime types, it doesn't make sense to build in complete validation on the backend.
        - Formatting strings can contain arbitrary non-token information.
        - We need to make sure frontend and backend validation matches and that's a lot of work - probably unnecessary, will probably lead to inconsistencies in the implementation.
        - The backend will only validate length to make sure random data is not stored.
        - Frontend will enforce additional rules.
        - Frontend cannot strictly rely on data from the backend
        
- Format
    - Length = 255
    - Only one string for format

# 2022-03-07

## Column Identifier Discussion
Sync call to disuss on how to move forward with conflicting changes with Brent's work on grouping API and Mukesh's work on [Mathesar 896 Change records api parameters to use column id instead of name #1047](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/1047).

###Questions

1. Will there be DDL outside of columns operation, should attnum be used outside columns operations - No
2. DML should use column name or id? 


### Notes:
- Prefer to have attnums everywhere for consistency if possible.
- View are treated as table in postgres and columns are stored in similar fashion
- Use autogenerated pseudo identifier for temporary aliased columns
- We could have a feature where the frontend could supply the alias of the column, this could solve the issue dom was talking about. But it would be a problem if only backend has information about a computed/aliased column. For example if a function generates a temporary column.
- Put a pause on the PR. 
- Records operations should be the only DML. Answers question (1)
- Maybe we need a directory to separate DML and DDL operations as a constraint operation can use a column DDL operation.



- **Participants:** Brent, Mukesh
