---
title: February 2022 meeting notes
description: 
published: true
date: 2022-02-19T15:22:56.149Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-02-10T16:35:03.047Z
---

# Asynchronous meetings
- 2022-02-21: [2022-02-21 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/1084)
- 2022-02-14: [2022-02-14 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/1066)
- 2022-02-07: [2022-02-07 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/1049)
- 2022-02-03: [Shipping more quickly](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/1046)

# 2022-02-16

## UX for failure to save a cell

- **Added by**: Sean
- **Summary**: To implement [#775](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/775), I need some clarification on our desired UX for the situation where a user tries to create a blank record within a table that does not specify a default value for a NOT NULL column. We'll likely want to reuse this UX pattern in situations where the user edits an existing cell and enters invalid data (which is arguably simpler to consider, though not a pressing open issue). I'd like to take a quick stab a clarifying this UX synchronously, or figure out the next steps towards doing more async design work if needed.
- **Participants:** Sean, Ghislaine, Pavish, Kriti, Dominykas

### Notes

- We need cell-level errors for editing
    - Proposal: remove highlighting entire row, only highlight error cell
    - This is fine, but we should have row highlighting in some way, the row number instead of the entire row
    - Errors take precedence over save state in terms of colors
- We need different errors for adding new records
    - We can use the same pattern for displaying individual errors
    - We'll still have the whole row red since nothing would be saved at this point

### Outcome

Sean will implement front end changes to match the following specs:

- (A) After editing an existing cell results in a validation error (either client-side or server-side):
    - The cell background will be light red.
    - A darker-red triangle will appear in the upper right corner of the cell. Hovering or clicking on the triangle will display an error message popover.
    - The row header (which displays the row index and deletion checkbox) will also have a light red background to better surface the error and help guide users towards thinking of their data in terms of records.
    
        Note: for the time being (and due to task prioritization), the row header will _not_ display the triangle or display any error messages. We may choose to add more functionality here in the future to better surface error messages.

    - Other cells which have contributed to the same error will also display the same error style and message (e.g. when a multi-column unique constraint fails.)

- (B) After editing an existing cell succeeds:
    - The cell background will turn green. No other cells will be re-styled.

- (C) After inserting a new record results in a validation error (either client-side or server-side):
    - All the behavior from (A) will apply.
    - Additionally, _all_ cells in the row will have the light red background to communicate that no data has been saved.

- (D) After inserting a new record succeeds:
    - All cells will have a green background.


## Visual design and improvisation

- **Added by**: Sean
- **Summary**: I'd like to clarify the intended specificity of our visual designs. Rough like a wire frame? Pixel perfect like a mockup? Somewhere in the middle? This has been confusing to me thus far, and I've gotten mixed messages.
  - [Originating discussion](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/1046#discussioncomment-2106543)
- **Participants:** Sean, Ghislaine, Kriti, Pavish, Mukesh, Dominykas

### Notes

- There's a tradeoff between being overly specific and not following the design at all
    - It's taken us a while to get the product and design process collaboration right
    - We ended up with designs in the previous specs that were out-of-scope for the design issue, so improvisation was needed from both design and frontend to implement it.
    - First step here is to improve the design creation process so that more specific designs can be produced, this is happening already.
        - Using Balsamiq for low fidelity wireframes
- Three phases of design:
    - Product design: user of goals
    - UX design: fields and interactions
    - Visual design: colors, fonts
- Sean is most confused about visual design
    - Ghislaine is not focused on visual design at the moment.
    - We're focused on UX design and visual design - interactions.
- Should we treat output from Ghislaine as wireframes?
    - No, because there are some visual aspects to the design and we should follow them as closely as possible
    - As long as we can follow them closely without compromising future work
    - Improvisation should only be done at the visual level
- We should eventually consider having UI guidelines and error states guidance for Mathesar clients that outside developers could build
    - Document error states associated with wireframes


## E2E testing strategies

- **Added by**: Sean
- **Summary**: We've had some disagreement regarding E2E testing. 
    - [Here](https://matrix.to/#/!UZILDSNKobkelUYwBp:matrix.mathesar.org/$qn4VJ51WoJspJmMc1F4inrRdQkbVYhcfiKEs1XEcyM8?via=matrix.mathesar.org) Mukesh wanted individual E2E tests to perform more actions and suggested Page Object Model to reduce repetition between tests -- whereas Sean wanted E2E tests to be focused on narrow features, using Django to setup the necessary prerequisites.
    - [Here](https://matrix.to/#/!UnujZDUxGuMrYdvgTU:matrix.mathesar.org/$29ky0Ou_bQy9D-wMqvgLoWO4xpQAu16JHKRVoETksv0?via=matrix.mathesar.org&via=matrix.org) Mukesh expressed concern about creating too many E2E tests and suggested we prioritize E2E tests for the most common user scenarios -- whereas Sean wanted to add E2E tests for some less-common user scenarios (e.g. attempting to add a unique constraint to a column with duplicate entries) with an eye towards prioritizing scenarios that touch a lot of different code.
- **Prompts for discussion**:
    - **Terminology** -- We [seem to be](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/89) using the terms "E2E" and "Integration" synonymously. Is that a problem? Do we want to make a distinction?
    - **E2E test case setup** -- For one Playwright test which asserts that the user can delete a table row, what process do we want to use seed Mathesar with the data for the user to delete? Use the UI? Or do it through Django?
    - **E2E test quota** -- In [Write integration tests for some important user scenarios](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/640), we've agreed on a set of 15 E2E tests to write. After closing that ticket, how should we decide when to write E2E tests and how rigorous we want to be with them?
    - **Page Object Model** -- Mukesh has brought this testing pattern up several times with me. Playwright [supports it](https://playwright.dev/python/docs/pom). Is it something we'd like to invest in soon? Or maybe later?
- **Participants**: Sean, Mukesh, Pavish, Brent, Dominykas

### Notes

- **Naming Convention**
  - According to Pavish `E2E` and `integration` test would be written in the same fashion on the frontend with the only difference being integration test would mock the backend API, so with regards to the terminology, we should be calling our current testing strategy with playwright as End-to-End testing. And Sean seems to be on the same page
  - Brent did not want to have a dogmatic approach to the naming convention, but he wanted to have a distinction. 
  - Mukesh wanted to have distinction between integration test and E2E, where playwright should be used for writing E2E test and integration test should be based on jsdom and api mocks
  - Mukesh expressed concerns that E2E test are flaky as it has to deal with unpredictable things like http calls, cache, async queues. Moreover as the app adds in additional layer like `async queue` or a `caching layer`, the set-up and teardown would become complex and increases both the development/maintanence time as well as the time to run the tests(which won't be much of a concern, as we run only specific test related to the feature we are working on during development). So we should be writing E2E tests that should test high level features like deleting a row and more specific tests like deleting multiple rows should be done with the integration layer.
	- For time being, Mukesh agreed to have integration test written with UI automation using `playwright`.



- **Fixture**

  - Mukesh did not want to completely rely on fixtures, rather wanted to use fixtures sparsely. Reason being that fixtures interact with database directly, so if we introduce a intermediatery layer, like say a async queue, our current testing method would not accurately reflect what the user would be doing. For example if we introduce async task, there could be a delay with when the data is actually written to the database, but since the test cases bypasses these intermediate layer, the test could end up passing but the actual UX flow would be failing from user standpoint
  - According to Pavish, we would be testing the complex layer(cache, async queues) too and other tests would be based on that. So it shouldn't be a problem.
  - Mukesh feels like those are the test we should be calling as E2E and the other test should be called as integration test and should not be written using playwright.
  - Mukesh on the whole agrees with Pavish and Sean that we can use fixtures and write test cases as are writing them now, since the app is fairly simple, provided there is a backlog to revisit and discuss over the strategy once we get the alpha out.
  - Brent understands the concern Mukesh brought up


### Decisions

- We will use "End to end" or "E2E" (and _not_ "integration") when referring to the tests that we run via Playwright.
- It's okay to use pytest fixtures which call Django functionality to set up prerequisites for E2E tests. (Mukesh still feels this is not "proper" E2E testing, but accepts this pattern for the time being.)
- We didn't get time to discuss "E2E tests quota" in depth.
- We will talk about Page Object Model another time. It's up to Mukesh to bring this topic up by making specific suggestions for how we would use it.



# 2022-02-10 

**Topic**: Weekly sync meeting

We're trying out weekly synchronous meetings to resolve things faster. Anyone can add agenda items ahead of time and we'll cancel the meeting if no agenda items are added 12 hours before the meeting.

## Backend plan for Initial Data Types milestone

- **Added by**: Kriti
- **Summary**: We have a lot of backend work to complete for the Initial Data Types milestone, and the frontend is catching up to the backend quickly. We should coordinate on how we can split up the remaining items in the most efficient way.
- **Participants:** Brent, Dominykas, Kriti, Mukesh

Notes:
- [Backend priorities for this week](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/1049#discussioncomment-2114763)
- We removed https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/648 from the milestone, will replace with a new issue for ensure default values work well with types
- Action items:
    - Brent:  File bug with SQLAlchemy for interval.
    - Kriti:
        - update custom money type issue to use display options instead
            - create related design issue
        - create a separate issue for making sure all types have tests for default values
            - See `test_alter_column_casts_data_gen` in `test_cast.py` for the current tests on that
- Plan:
    - Dominykas:
        - All filtering issues
        - All data type API update issues
    - Brent:
        - INTERVAL
        - Date & time parsing spec and related updates
        - All grouping issues
    - Mukesh:
        - Display options for money
        - Replace column name usage with ID issue
        - Display options for duration
        - Default values testing and fixes
- Whoever is done first will start working on the foreign key APIs.

## Google Summer of Code project idea brainstorming

- **Added by**: Kriti
- **Summary**: I'd like to spend some time brainstorming project ideas for Google Summer of Code. We can also review the existing ideas if time permits.
- **Participants:** Brent, Dominykas, Kriti, Mukesh, Pavish

Notes:
- [Current Project Ideas](https://wiki.mathesar.org/en/community/mentoring/project-ideas)
- Dominykas likes automation hint reflection and SQL query builder
- SQL query builder difficulty is medium
- File and image types should be JS-heavy
    - Most of the work is the frontend
    - Potentially use Django storage for the backend or a more generic Python library offering storage
        - Could only support a couple of storage options in the beginning if no suitable library can be found.
    - Can also specify external URLs
    - Frontend shouldn't deal with complicated vendor-specific stuff like AWS tokens yet, use URLs instead
    - Difficulty should be High
- PostGIS idea could be hard, involves a fair bit of research
    - Integrate with different mapping services maybe?
- Idea: Exporting data from Mathesar
- Idea: Async infrastructure for Mathesar
    - Better done by core team, will not add
    - We also need caching infrastructure, separately