---
title: June 2021 meeting notes
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-05-25T16:49:24.093Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-05-25T16:49:24.093Z
---

# 2021-06-08

## Welcome Dhruv!
- Dhruv is going to be contributing to engineering work
- Previously worked with Kriti and Brent at Creative Commons

## Meeting format and communication check-in
- How well are the weekly meetings working for everyone?
    - Better than 3 times a week
    - Synchronous design review would be useful
- Anything you'd like to add or remove from the agenda?
    - Status updates doesn't seem like a good use of time.
    - What should we do instead?
        - Having a meeting once a week seems useful, just to see each other.
    - Maybe focus the meeting on a process improvement.
        - More tangible results.
    - Don't forget to help Kriti take notes!
    - Kriti also thinks status updates might not be the best use of time
        - Maybe shouldn't worry about always having something else to fill the time there.
    - Status updates could be more relevant if we have more dependencies/blockers.
    - Write out status updates, take a moment to read them during the meeting, only discuss as needed.
- Anything else we should discuss synchronously?
    - Design reviews?
    - Ghislaine can share ahead a day ahead of time, once design is finalized, we could have a 20 min review
    - Kriti: whole team might not need to attend
    - Could be just Ghislaine and Pavish, other could be optional
- Asynchronous communication
    - Let's try to use GitHub discussions for conversations.
        - We're all curious people who enjoy thinking about different things
        - If we notice that a convo on Matrix is growing long, we should be assertive about moving it over to GH discussions
    - Threads and longer messages are better for people to participate in asynchronously.

## New GitHub organization
- [Milestones](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/milestones?direction=asc&sort=due_date&state=open) to represent roadmap items.
    - Everything we need for the MVP is there
    - Deadlines should mean whole stack is done by then
    - Design should be 2 weeks before
    - Everyone please look at the roadmap asynchronously, make sure that things make sense.
    - 
- [Backlog project](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/projects/2) reorganized for MVP work only.
    - Anyone can grab work from ready column
    - Are we defining a triage process?
        - We won't define one for now, Kriti will handle triage of issues
    - Harder to define issues that are too far ahead
    - We will add ordinal numbers to each road item
        - This will help with quickly sorting through things in the backlog view
- New [Future project](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/projects/3) for post-MVP work.

## New Matrix channels
- Kriti set up `#code:matrix.mathesar.org` and `#design:matrix.mathesar.org` for conversations related to code or design.

## Retrospective

### Dhruvi 
- Did some reading about Design systems
- Started working on the typography 
- Had 1:1 with Ghislaine and took feedback
- Could not do much due to College submissions

### Kriti
- Updated documentation for new contributors
- Started converting roadmap to GitHub issues
- Various discussions/conversations/meetings/PR review etc.

### Pavish
- Raised PR for readonly table
- Participated in some discussions/conversations
- Could not work much last week

### Ghislaine
- Worked on filtering, sorting and grouping of tables
- 1:1 with Dhruvi
- Initial feedback on filtering functionality layout and interactions

## Brent
- Worked on DB syncing
    - This will be a bit complex, and involve some changes to the schema and table models
    - So far, the model changes are done, as well as some db-layer functions
- Discussions

### Eamon
- Finished most wiki automation scripts
    - Image organization
    - Link rot detection
- Started API work
    - Finished table creation from datafile endpoint
    - Read lots of documentation

## Upcoming work

### Dhruvi 
- Work on Typography iterations 
- Work on Color Schemes
- Have college exams this week so will be engaged there

### Kriti
- Continue converting roadmap to GitHub issues (lots left to do)
- Setting up a Mathesar staging environment (needs to be behind auth).
- Set up API documentation if time permits

### Pavish
- Work on GH issues that were spilled over from readonly table PR
    - Pagination
    - Non-existent tables handling when present in url
    - Type correction of ids on the frontend

### Ghislaine
- Specs for filtering, sorting and grouping
- Review structure of design wiki and organize if needed
- Specs for lookup field component
- Start design for adding a new record to a table

### Brent
- DB syncing should be done in short order
- Going through many GH tickets, putting in order, starting some
- Focusing on backend work for CSV upload milestone.

### Eamon
- Finish cleaning up wiki scripts
- Start filtering and sorting endpoints for tables and schemas

# 2021-06-01

## Welcome Dhruvi!
- Dhruvi is volunteering part-time to help with design
- Previously interned at Creative Commons
- Introductions

## Design review guidelines
Please read [the wiki page](https://wiki.mathesar.org/en/design/process/review-guidelines).

## Yet another workflow update
- We have a lot to do to get to the MVP, we need to get ahead on product/design work.
    - Kriti will focus effort on converting roadmap to backlog of GitHub issues.
        - Both for design and development.
    - Aim is to help with consistent work output by allowing people to quickly work through issues and pick new ones.
        - Community contributors can also help.
- General principles for the MVP stage (and probably beyond):
    - Documentation is meant to be descriptive, not prescriptive.
        - Our aim is to write down what we need to make things easier for ourselves.
        - Avoid rabbit holes (defining/planning out too far into the future), keep focus on getting a product out.
    - Iterate, don't try to get things perfect.
        - We are trying to make something that we can put in front of users _quickly_.
        - We might have to change or throw away stuff later, that is absolutely fine.
    - Keep implementation simple.
        - Try to minimize assumptions about users, we cannot know what users want ahead of time.
        - Given two options, if both rely on assumptions about users, choose the one that's simpler to implement.
    - There are probably exceptions to these, we don't know what they are.

### Discussion
- Applicable to cursor based pagination vs. limit/offset pagination.
- Note when we make decision between different implementations so that we can make sure to architect things in a way that we can change implementations later more easily.
    - Use Engineering Decisions wiki page.
- User assumptions: things we don't know, e.g. if a user wants the ID visible or not.
    - It's not a user assumption when one option ends up with users losing data, and another doesn't. 
- Write down heuristics as we discuss them, not ahead of time.

## New Labels
See: https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/labels

- Added prefixes to different types of labels to make usage easier.

## Retrospective

### Brent
- Finished filtering and grouping logic in data layer
- Many discussions
- PR reviews
- Reading Django docs
- Working on DB object syncing flow

### Dhruvi
- Introductory call with Ghislaine

### Eamon
- Wiki automation scripts
    -  Downloading images
    -  Organizing images
    -  Link rot detection
- Reviewed Django and Django-REST
- Setup development environment

### Ghislaine
- Pagination component specs
- Add table import feedback/review
- Discussions on pagination and naming convention for objects
- Design Review Guidelines
- Prepare first issue for Dhruvi
- Started work on Filter, Sort and Group Tables

### Kriti
- API principles: https://wiki.mathesar.org/engineering/architecture/api-standards
- Many different conversations/discussions
- Ticket creation

Time taken up by communication training, IT manager interviews, Memorial Day

### Pavish
Couldn't work much last week.
- Implemented table & tab sync with url
- Some discussions

## Upcoming Work

### Brent
- Continuing data syncing
- I'll be out tomorrow with dilated eyes until later in the day
- If time, minor performance modification w.r.t. getting records

### Dhruvi
- Getting familiar with the concepts and roadmap
- Start working on the first task (Create a Design library)

### Eamon
- Finish automation scripts (?)
    - Check for private images on public pages
    - Fix link rot detection
- Review Mathesar structure / API
- Get started on API work
    - [Table creation](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/146)
    - [TSV Support](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/62)

### Ghislaine
- Organize and close github design issues
- Review design wiki structure
- Design for filter, sort and group data
- Collaborate w Dhruvi on component library task

### Kriti
FYI: Reassigned table creation API & TSV file issue to Eamon

- Convert roadmap into specced out GitHub issues
- API documentation setup
- Meetings (external and internal)

Time taken up by IT manager interviews and follow up until end of next week.

### Pavish
Will not be able to allocate enough time this week as well.
- Continue working on readonly table view
    - Include import view within tab
    - Store table state of open tabs in indexedDB and link with a Read/Write store