---
title: April 2022 meeting notes
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-05-11T14:40:36.290Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-04-13T19:01:32.122Z
---

# Asynchronous Discussions

- [2022-04-04 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/1259)

# 2022-04-13
- **Topic**: New Team Workflow
- **Summary**: We'll be experimenting with splitting up into smaller teams and running a 3 week "cycle" from Apr 18 to May 6. This meeting is to discuss workflow changes and communication norms.
- **Participants:** Brent, Dominykas, Ghislaine, Kriti, Mukesh, Pavish, Sean

## Helpful reading
Our new workflow is inspired by the way Basecamp works.
- [The Basecamp Guide to Internal Communication](https://basecamp.com/guides/how-we-communicate)
- [Group Chat: The Best Way to Totally Stress Out Your Team](https://basecamp.com/guides/group-chat-problems)
- [The concept of hill charts](https://basecamp.com/features/hill-charts), we'll be considering them to track progress
- Book: *[Shape Up](https://basecamp.com/shapeup/webbook)* (free to read online)

## Meeting structure
- We're going to stick to the scheduled time for each topic (agenda and times have been omitted in notes for brevity)
- Kriti will run the meeting
- We need volunteers to:
    - take notes - Brent
    - keep time - Sean

## Our current problems 
- Our pace is too slow, we're not completing features as quickly as we could.
    - We need to release soon and get Mathesar into real users' hands
- All our discussions involve too many people 
	- We need to make decisions more quickly
- We're spending too much time debating small decisions
	- Not even sure if some results will matter, our decisions are temporary
    - User feedback will challenge many of our assumptions
- Kriti is a bottleneck
	- People should be empowered to make decisions independently

## The new plan
To address these problems, we're going to try a 3 week work cycle starting next Monday.
- From Apr 18 to May 6.
- We'll split into smaller teams, each with a very specific goal.
- You do not need to worry about the big picture during cycles, only your team's goals for that cycle.
- After the cycle, we will have a cooldown period of 1-2 weeks to plan next steps
	- Cooldowns are for pausing and assessing the big picture
	- Cooldown reduces discussion during cycle
- If it works for us, we'll continue with working in cycles with cooldowns in between
    - Our eventual goal: 6-week cycles with 2-week cooldowns

## Team responsibilities
- Each team will be assigned a project, either a set of features or one large feature.
- Teams will be small (~2 members)
- Teams are empowered to make whatever decisions are needed to complete their project.

### Goals
- Team members do not have to do _all_ the work related to their project, but the team is responsible for making sure it gets done.
	- This may change once we have a larger codebase where projects can be less tightly coupled.
- Team members should use completing all functionality in the [design specs](https://wiki.mathesar.org/en/design/specs) in the frontend as the success criteria for their goal unless otherwise explicitly decided

### Communication
- As a rule of thumb, team members should be communicating:
	- frequently between themselves
	- rarely outside the team
- Each team should decide how best to communicate internally (async, frequent calls, somewhere in between)
- **Please do talk to members of other teams if:**
    - You're both working on the same parts of the codebase and need to coordinate
    - You're considering not following established API or code standards
    - You're making product/design decisions that will be **difficult-to-undo**
    - You need specialized knowledge that would take you a long time to acquire but someone else has at the tip of their tongue (e.g. someone who is familiar with particular parts of the codebase)
- If you are talking to members of other teams, keep the number of people involved as small as possible to facilitate quicker conversations and decisions

## The Upcoming Cycle
Now that we've gone over the concept of cycles generally, it's time to plan for this specific cycle.

### Goals
- **Product goals**:
	- Finish the next two feature milestones: 
	    - Initial Data Types
	    - Links Between Tables
	- Have enough clarity to plan out the final pre-launch milestones during the next cooldown:
		- Queries and Views 
		- UI Styling
		- Deployment
- **Process goals**:
	-  Reducing product scope to fit into the cycle time
        - Example: If the date picker is going to take a week to implement, then we ship without the date picker. You're empowered to make the decision to cut it.
    - Reduce context switching during cycles
    - Communication norm changes
	    - Discuss in smaller groups
	    - Make decisions quickly


### Teams
We will split into four teams, with the following team goals:

- **Sean & Mukesh**
	- Data types - Number
	- Data types - Money
	- Data types - URI
	- Data types - Email
	- Data types - (loose ends)
	- Foreign keys
- **Pavish & Dominykas**
	- Data types - Boolean
	- Data types - Duration
	- Data types - Date / Time
	- Data types - Grouping
	- Data types - Filtering
	- Data types - Default values
- **Brent & Ghislaine**
	- Complete Queries and Views design prototypes and specs
	- Complete Queries and Views backend technical spec
- **Kriti**
	- Come up with use cases and personas for Mathesar
	- General product plan for UI Styling & Deployment milestones, informed by use cases and personas

### Cooldown
The plan for our first cooldown is to plan out the next cycle, including:
- holding a retrospective on the first cycle went
	- check in on the concerns and distractions we discussed in this meeting
	- we'll decide what processes to keep and change for the next cycle
- reviewing product and design work generated during the first cycle
	- Queries & Views design and backend spec
	- product spec for UI Styling & Deployment
- finalizing implementation plan for Queries and Views
- figuring out next steps for UI Styling and Deployment milestones
- figuring out the teams, goals, and timeline for the next cycle

## Potential problems
In this section, we brainstormed potential obstacles to reaching our goals for the cycle and talked through solutions. [(Private) brainstorming document](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yfomWgvF3riSARXb82KmjxRLYS7-8sZheqDytbR42dI/edit#gid=0).

### Distractions
- **Eliminated entirely**
	- GSoC draft proposal review
		- Final submission date is Apr 18
	- Comms Assignee
	- Weekly planning via GitHub discussions
- **Will only happen during cooldown period**
	- Product and design review 
	- Team events
	- Public speaking workshop
- **Changes to existing processes:**
	- GitHub Issues
		- We will only make GitHub issues for issues that we're not immediately working on.
			- We don't need to spec out issues for core team work.
		- Feel free to use GH issues to get things _out_ of your head.
		- If it's a low priority and we don't want to deal with reviewing PRs for it, we will mark the issue as `status: draft`
	- Troubleshooting E2E test failures
		- Feel free to disable brittle tests and create issues instead of spending time on them.
- **No changes, but should naturally reduce with the new workflow**:
	- Matrix usage
	- GitHub Discussions usage
	- Hard to keep track of new GitHub Issues
	- Premature documentation / speccing
	- Adding more tickets which aren't an immediate concern/premature
- **No changes**:
	- Hiring & interviews
	- Code review process (for both core team and contributors)
		- We discussed eliminating code review for the core team, but some team members objected.
	- Weekly meeting on Wednesdays
	- Standups
	- API Spec reviews
	- Picking final GSoC contributors
	- Student Design Projects
- **Distractions that were tabled to address later**:
	- Increasing scope of design issues / unexpected scenarios
	- Having to change spec during implementation
		- Make it work in the short-term, file a bug for long-term issues
	- Keeping the roadmap and milestones updated
	- Coordinating schedules to find a time for a sync discussion
	- Unexpected Bugs with existing features

A word about GSoC:
-  GSoC is lots of work, but busiest time is almost over
	- This is the irritating period, benefits are later
		- Develop long-term contributors
		- Get word out

### Concerns
- Visibility of internal work might suffer, we're open source
	- We don't get any community engagement in our day-to-day work discussions
	- It might actually be _better_ to be intentional about what we release to the community 
- A designer on each team might help unblock work and move faster
	- We'll figure that out after we see how this cycle goes
- How do we make sure we estimating scope for a sprint correctly?
	- We're not trying to make the sprint fit the scope, we're trying to make the scope fit the sprint
	- This is an experimental cycle, we will iterate on the planning process

**Tabled for later discussion**:
- User involvement / research
- Group chat v small group and direct chat

## New tooling discussion
There was a proposal to replace the communication/organization tools used by the core team with [Basecamp](https://basecamp.com/). We would use GitHub and Matrix only for community-related work.

Benefits:
- Centralizing project-related comms and files
	- Design specs could be associated with projects
- Centralizing most relevant notifications
- Automating standups
- Tracking non-code todo items (currently tracked ad-hoc via Matrix)
- Hill charts for progress tracking
- Ability to make projects public to share them with the community

Concerns:
- Community visibility
- Yet another tool to checl

**Decision**: Table the conversation until after the first cycle.

## Next steps and action items
We discussed a lot of things! Here are the key changes that will be happening:
- The cycle starts on Monday
- **Priorities for this week**:
	- GSoC draft proposal review
	- Hiring preparation
		- Localization engineer job description
		- Interview questions
	- Wrapping up current work that isn't related to your priorities
	- Rearranging scheduled events as needed (e.g. team event)
- **Team organization**:
	- Teams should meet and figure out a plan for how to meet their goals.
	- This can happen either this week or early next week.
- **Distraction tracking**:
	- Expected distractions during the cycle should be minimized to:
		- Code review
		- Internal discussion needed to pick GSoC contributors 
		- Interviews
	-  If any other distractions occur, note them for later review!
- **Process changes**:
	- No more weekly planning discussion
  - No more comms assignee

## Appendix: pre-meeting notes
This section preserves notes added prior to the meeting.

### Pavish's concerns
**First cycle teams and goals**
I've been thinking over this the past couple days.
We are often overestimating our capacity and underestimating tasks. I've been guilty of doing this myself. I don't want us repeating it for this new workflow.
  - We have planned to complete all data types in the 3 weeks sprint.
  - I have about 6 features to complete in this sprint.
  - Here's how I can see the scenarios for just one feature - Date & Time types:
    - We need to search and come up with a datepicker component that suits our usecases.
    - The analysis itself might take a day. A rough early analysis:
      - The most suitable ones are jquery based.
        - A lot of them aren't even supported anymore.
        - Jquery itself is about 90kb in size minified.
        - These date pickers come around 60kb to 300kb.
        - For comparison, our entire application is around 420kb (When compressed: 100kb).
        - These would bloat our build size up, and there will be a tradeoff to consider.
        - Even the most leanest library comes around 50kb. Eg., Flatpickr, the best option I've found so far.
        - Most of these tie themselves to the input (including flatpickr) and perform their own validations. We cannot extend them, say for eg., entering 'yesterday' and treating it as a valid value, without forking these libraries.
        - A few years ago, I spent a week trying to salvage existing date range pickers for a project I was working on, and finally ended up writing my own from scratch. Provided, that project required several specific usecases for the date range pickers.
    - There is a good chance we may have to build our own components. If we can use an existing library, I'd be very happy.
    - I see this process (use an existing library or write our own) taking anywhere from 2 to 4 days with focused coding time.
    - After the lower order components are ready, we need to implement each type: date, time, datetime.
    - There are some issues here that I see now. We may have more while implementing:
      - The design spec has separate date and time formats for dateTime.
      - While implementing the backend, I remember we decided to have a single 'format' display option to give user maximum flexibility in the future.
      - This may lead to a few back and forth between design, backend and frontend before we decide on what we actually are going to implement.
      - Figuring out the cell input UX and interactions are left entirely to the developer, which will take additional time.
      - Resolving all these and implementing this might take upto another 2 to 3 days.
    - Overall, with fully focused time we'll need anywhere between 4 to 7 days to complete the date & time types.
    - Considering that we cannot always have that focused time due to other context switches such as GSoC, PR reviews, discussions, personal life stuff etc., it may extend to around 5 to 10 days.
    - Our whole sprint is only for 3 weeks, which is 3 * 5 working days = 15 days.
* This is just one example, I can see FK feature panning out to be more complex than we estimate at the moment.
* I think we might need to plan out the tasks before starting the sprint including analyzing each feature with a little depth, so that we can estimate how many features we can actually complete during the sprint.

**Design process hurdles** 
* I've been noticing issues that come up during implementation of a design, sometimes late in the implementation process.
    * For eg., Only while implementing display options, I noticed that we need to validate both database and display options before hitting Save.
    * While this may seem like evident now, it wasn't during the design stage or even during implementation of database options form.
    * This lead to having to detach form logic from component (thereby losing the out-of-the-box features provided by the dom & framework), and implement validation for it.
    * While this task isn't complex, it still takes additional time, and caused UX issues to consider, like how do I show the user there's an error when the form's not visible?
    * This leads to having to come up with a design improvisation during development, which takes time on it's own.
    * These kind of scenarios lead to more conversations and debates on what is seemingly a small change in the end.
* Some of the specs are not detailed enough.
    * For eg., The date and time selector cell interaction is not detailed.
    * This again leads to the developer improvising design during implementation phase, or a whole new cycle of design to development with a lot of discussions. Both of these take considerable time.
* Here are some quotes from the book linked in the parent discussion: [Shape Up](https://basecamp.com/shapeup/1.1-chapter-02#wireframes-are-too-concrete).
   * > Wireframes too concrete
     > making the interface just so can require solving hidden complexities and implementation details that weren’t visible in the mockup. When the scope isn’t variable, the team can’t reconsider a design decision that is turning out to cost more than it’s worth.
   * > Words are too abstract:
     > “Build a calendar view” or “add group notifications” sound sensible, but what exactly do they entail? Team members don’t have enough information to make trade-offs. They don’t know what to include or leave out. A programmer who worked in that situation said: You’re solving a problem with no context. You have to be a mind reader. It’s like: “we’ll know it when we see it.”

**My suggestion**
* Each team needs a designer. Right now, there are 4 teams with 2 teams coding in parallel. The teams comprise of one frontend and one backend developer, they also need a designer.
* Whenever a design problem is faced during implementation, that designer is responsible for fixing it.
* We need to hire atleast one more full time designer. Ghislaine has a lot of parallel work and context switching is going to be hard for her.

**Use hill charts with our current workflow**
* I love the idea of using hill charts.
* I often raise multiple PRs related to a single issue, which includes a lot of groundwork. 
* While I work on an issue which requires groundwork, I'd be the one implementing that groundwork and the issue later. I do not like taking additional time in creating issues for said pre-requisites.
* The only major value of it is for everyone in the team to be upto date on what I'm doing. I assume the standups and weekly meetings sufficient for that.
* I see a lot of value in using hill charts, so that we can also track progress in such cases more efficiently.

### Brent's concerns
- I think we can avoid converstion within ourselves, but it's a bit difficult to avoid with external community members. We should think about how to mitigate this.
- To me, the most valuable part of this, more than the deadlines or specific goals, is the focus on smaller-group communication. This is the part I personally want to focus on for our initial trial of this style, and where I'm focusing my thoughts here. Concerns with that part of things:
	- I think public visibility is crucial for open source. 
	- I think the volume of public discussion right now actually reduces visibility of signal (in all the noise).
	- I don't know how to make the parts we need to be visible to the public and other internal teammates visible without documenting after-the-fact.
		- 'watch-only' rooms for each smaller team? I.e., each smaller team communicates in a way that invites others to view but not participate. May be unworkable.
- Don't deal with in this cycle
    
### Dominykas' concerns
- I agree wish Pavish about examining first cycle goals in detail to better estimate how long they will take;
- We've not been shy about doing long-form write ups, which is good;
	- but I've been often disappointed with the quality of my own writing;
	   - in my experience, I'd say that the longer my write-up, the more likely I am to be misunderstood;
		  - that's partly expected, because long explanations tend to introduce something new;
		  - at the same time, I'm convinced that my writing skills (which has a lot of overlap with thinking skills) could be significantly improved;
	- I would be interested in honing my technical writing skills;
	   - I would be interested in starting a writing club or something similar with that objective.
   - I support using hill charts, and I'm super interested in what other tools we can use to improve our workflow;
   - I like Basecamp's philosophy and approach;
      - I can see why their articles were linked many times in this doc.
      
- Cycle isn't about estimating how long it takes to build, it's about figuring out what we can build in that timeframe
- Transition period; experimental

