---
title: May 2022 meeting notes
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-05-11T14:41:17.653Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-07-20T15:16:41.845Z
---

> We switched to a new team workflow in [April 2022](/en/meeting-notes/2022-04). May 2022 meetings were focused on planning out Cycle 2 and involved much more whiteboarding and brainstorming.
{.is-info}

# 2022-05-31
**Topic**: Cycle 2 planning meeting
**Attendees**: Brent, Dominykas, Ghislaine, Kriti, Mukesh, Pavish, Sean

We discussed the goals and storyboard for a potential Mathesar demo. Please see the document below for more information.

[cycle_2_user_flow.pdf](/cycle_2_user_flow.pdf)

# 2022-05-11
**Topic**: Cycle 2 planning meeting
**Attendees**: Brent, Dominykas, Ghislaine, Kriti, Mukesh, Pavish, Sean

## GSoC candidate and mentor selection
*Notes not shared since they involved personally identifiable information about candidates*.

### User flow idea pitches and selection 
We used a FigJam whiteboard to write down and pitch ideas (see homework from previous meeting).

### Exercise: provisional persona
We did a quick exercise on a FigJam whiteboard where we tried to brainstorm a potential user persona for the users we were trying to target Mathesar towards. 

# 2022-05-09 
**Topic**: Cycle 2 planning meeting
**Attendees**: Brent, Dominykas, Ghislaine, Kriti, Mukesh, Pavish, Sean

## Retrospective
- Based on your experience with the previous cycle, write down (**on your own computer, do not share yet**):
    - What you'd like to keep in future cycles
    - What you'd like to change in future cycles
    - What you'd like to completely eliminate in future cycles
    - Any other thoughts you have

- Went well
    - Less communication
    - Targeted communication
    - Collaborating with one other person consistently
    - More code
    - Autonomy is empowering
    - Progress was faster, made decisions faster
    - Sync comms are more scalable when smaller teams
        - MWF meetings more time efficient than always keeping an eye on comms
    - Single topic focus
- Change
    - Sean: Standup pings
    - Ghislaine: Standup: not enough to share
    - Pavish: Need to prioritize better, still worked issue by issue rather than granularly working on parts of tasks
    - Mukesh: Backlog was too big, had to switch context, also had to do PR reviews
    - Mukesh: Figure out API specs at the start of the sprint
        - Sean: or move to cooldown
    - Brent: Cut off work coming into the beginning that's not part of that sprint
    - Brent: Cross-team reviews are a major bottleneck
    - Kriti: Figure out a better way to involve the community during the sprint
- Eliminate
    - Brent: Cross-team dependencies, reduce or eliminate
- Other thoughts
    - Planning needs to be improved (although not focus of the sprint)
    - No place for unexpected discoveries that came out of brainstorming

## Presentation
Kriti presented a draft presentation of Mathesar's upcoming goals and roadmap. The presentation was too early and rough to be shared publicly. 

## Next Steps
- Homework: Review assigned final GSoC proposals (since the deadline ws coming up)
- Write down 1-3 ideas for Mathesar use cases. Be prepared to pitch your idea in 1 min or less during the meeting (you'll have 1 min per idea). Examples:
    - Warehouse manager wants to manage inventory
    - School secretary wants to maintain student info
    - Small business wants a quick and hackable sales dashboard
    - Bibliophile wants to manage book collection

