---
title: Kriti's work log
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-07-18T19:02:49.152Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-07-06T18:59:51.770Z
---

# Working on
- Product strategy skeleton

## Backlog
- Update script and slides for upcoming funder meeting
- Approve the installation project once Mukesh has made updates and Pavish has confirmed approval
- Keep an eye on Transifex conversation
- Analyze use cases once Ghislaine has more "raw data" in Mathesar
- Set up CRM in Mathesar to track contacts
	- Follow up with various people who've helped me over the last few months
- Figure out current status and next steps for various ongoing responsibilities
- Review Sean's Querydown document
- At some point, go through and organize GitHub issues and milestones
- At some point, describe our team workflow on the wiki

# Complete

## 2023-07-19
- **Team management**
	- Ran the weekly meeting
	- Posted meeting notes on the wiki
-  **Project management**
	- Discussion with Mukesh about:
		- changes to the installation project to address Pavish's feedback
		- Next steps before scheduling an installation related meeting
	- Followed up on Aritra's project idea
	- Discussion about deploying internal server automatically
- **Release management**
	- Followed up on Rajat's thread with next steps to managing the release
	- Responded to and followed up on a few new tickets created by users
		- [Does not work on windows](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/2961) (followed up with Brent)
		- [Support for column descriptions/comments](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3069#top) (commented)
		- [Not really possible to override settings](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3048) (commented)
		- [The requirement of superuser postgresql access is problematic #2990](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/2990) (followed up with Mukesh)
	- Put a couple of bugs opened by Dom into the "next release milestone"
		- [500 when adding unique constraint on point column](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3067)
		- [Able to order on an unorderable field](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3066)
- **Fundraising**
	- How to Raise Money workshop session
- **Comms**
	- Various discussions on Matrix
	- Caught up on email and GitHub

## 2023-07-18
- **Project management**
	- Reviewed and marked the following projects as approved:
		- 2023-07 frontend fixes
		- Shareable links
		- Move DDL operations to SQL functions
		- 2023-07 backend fixes
		- Internationalization
		- Product strategy
  - Reviewed and followed up on installation project
  - Updated [projects](/en/projects) page with a bit more detail on our workflow.
  - Simplified [project template](/en/projects/template) to be more in line with the new workflow.
  - Followed up on Shrey's project.
  - Reviewed and followed up on Aritra's project idea.
  - Followed up on Varsha's email.
- **Regular comms**
	- Followed up on various GitHub issues
	- Caught up with email
- **Team management**
	- Cleaned up and expanded agenda for tomorrow's weekly meeting.
	- Updated meeting agenda item template.
- **Fundraising**
	- 1:1 with Geoffrey to get advice on the upcoming meeting

## 2023-07-17
- **Management & administration**
	- Confirmed 1Password renewal, signed up for [open source program](https://github.com/1Password/1password-teams-open-source/pull/789)
	- Followed up with Transifex support
	- Triaged GitHub and email
	- Followed up on UCB Product Design Studio collaboration request
	- Reviewed work logs and sent reminder to team members who haven't been keeping them updated
- **Product**
	- Call with Mukesh to iron out details of the installation improvements project.
	- Product strategy check in with Ghislaine, decided next steps.
	- Reviewed skipping inference UI proposal with Ghislaine.
- **Fundraising**
	- Scheduled prep call with Geoffrey
	- Scheduled practice call with Ian

## 2023-07-14
*Partial day, sick*

- **Management & administration**
  - Caught up on email and chat, some follow ups
  - 1Password cleanup and followup
- **Fundraising**
  - How to Raise Money workshop session

## 2023-07-13
*Partial day, sick*

- **Management & administration**
  - Rescheduled 1:1s to be more manageable
  - Cancelled team meeting
  - Checked in on Matrix with: Sean, Ghislaine, Pavish, Brent, Anish, Rajat, Mukesh, Dom
  - Posted [installation meeting notes](https://wiki.mathesar.org/en/meeting-notes/2023-07/2023-07-11-installation-meeting)
  - Followed up on some meeting scheduling and accounting stuff.
  - Followed up with Transifex support re: open source status
  - Created a new Transifex project and invited Mukesh and Rajat
  - Followed up on 1Password renewal
- **Product**
  - Kicked off project approval discussions
  - Reviewed projects:
  	- 2023-07 frontend fixes
    - Shareable links
    - Move DDL operations to SQL functions
    - 2023-07 backend fixes
    - Internationalization
    - Installation improvements
  - Product strategy project check in with Ghislaine
  
## 2023-07-12
- **Management & administration**
  - Caught up on email, GitHub, Matrix
  - Re-organized [projects](/en/projects) and [responsibilities](/en/team/responsibilities) pages.
- **Product**
	- Wrote up [2023-07 product strategy](/en/projects/2023-07-product-strategy) project
- **Fundraising**
  - How to Raise Money workshop session
- **Other**
	- External meeting for networking/advice + pre-prep

## 2023-07-11
- **Management & administration**
  - Caught up on email
  - Reviewed worklogs
  - Reviewed 1Password options and decided on next steps; followed up with Ondrej
- **Product**
  - Installation related meeting and follow up discussion
  - Caught up on GitHub issues and followed up on a few of them
  - Discussion with Ghislaine about next steps for strategy / user research project
  - Contacted Transifex about open source plan
- **Fundraising**
  - 1:1 with Geoffrey

## 2023-07-10
*Day off.*

## 2023-07-07
- **Management & administration**
  - Caught up with email, Matrix, and GitHub (various responses and follow ups)
- **Product**
  - Planning meeting with Ghislaine for strategy / user research work 
  - Reviewed the spec for shareable links and sent some feedback via email
  - Read through and responded to forms research
  - Looked through Aritra's blog post and associated PR
- **Fundraising**
  - Attended How to Raise Money workshop session
- **Team building & community**
  - Attended core team event
  - Nominated a couple of people for a GSoC-related leadership program

## 2023-07-06
- **Management & administration**
  - Caught up with email and GitHub
  - Prepped for and ran the team planning meeting
  - Scheduled next team, installation, and user research planning meetings
  - 1:1s with Sean and Pavish
  - Set up worklog pages on wiki
  - Followed up on async planning emails
  - Posted a bunch of meeting notes from this week's meetings on the wiki
- **Product**
  - Prepped for and ran the installation planning meeting
  - Prioritized issues for Sean and Dom and sent an email
