---
title: 2022-10-26 weekly meeting
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-05-11T14:43:23.671Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-11-03T02:33:36.387Z
---

## Cycle 5 progress check-in
**Participants:** Entire core team (Kriti was out)

### How are we feeling about progress?
- Rajat feels good / safe
- Dom feels okay; subject to meeting
- Sean feels mostly okay
    - worried about prioritization
- Lots of DE work generated by styling / UX 
- Backend no new bugs, only fixing please


## Data Explorer styling - backend work needed

**Summary**: This meeting is to quickly go through the Data Explorer styling updates in the figma file and come up with backend work needed. Figma link: https://www.figma.com/file/xHb5oIqye3fnXtb2heRH34/Styling?node-id=1384%3A6672.

**Participants:** Pavish, Dominykas, Brent, Ghislaine

- Auto guess and include grouped and aggregated columns in query run response when grouped by a single column. We could use an additional property to determine if guessing is required.
- New transformation to hide columns.
- Description for explorations.
- Make display_name a separate query property.
- Don't allow deleting last base_table column.
- Ability to skip invalid transformations (eg., filters with a column which is no longer present) and provide information regarding them in response. (UX discussion needed).
- Question: Is sort transform present? Yes.
- Info: Based on new design, grouping by multiple columns is now allowed. All of the columns should be present as either a grouped or an aggregated column.
- Filters on Array?
- *(Anything else we find during the meeting)*
- Auto-aggregation: Continued in next agenda item.

## Data Explorer - auto-aggregation & behavior of summarization over auto-aggregated columns

**Summary**: This meeting is to determine the behavior of summarization over an auto-aggregated column. Kriti had some thoughts over it during the styling meetings, and we'd be discussing over it.

**Participants:** Pavish, Dominykas, Brent, Ghislaine

- Base table column would always be present, so a column with multiple values are auto-aggregated. No additional configuration from user.
- User is allowed to group or aggregate over such auto-aggregated columns.
- Book is base_table. Author columns are auto-aggregated while adding.
  ```
   Book.Name | Book.Publication_Year | Author.Name (auto-aggregated)
   ----------|-----------------------|-------------------------------
   Book1     | 2020                  | A, B, C
   Book2     | 2021                  | A, B
   Book3     | 2020                  | A, B, C
   Book4     | 2020                  | A
   Book1     | 2022                  | A, B, D
   Book5     | 2022                  | A, B
   ```
   Group by Author.Name, aggregate other columns by list:
   ```
   Author.Name | Book.Name      | Book.Publication_Year
   ------------|----------------|-----------------------
   A, B, C     | Book1, Book3   | 2020 (Is a single value instead of two, Union of 2020, 2020)
   A, B        | Book2, Book5   | 2021, 2022
   A           | Book4          | 2020
   A, B, D     | Book1          | 2022
   ```
   Group by Book.Name, aggregate other columns by list:
   ```
   Book.Name | Book.Publication_Year | Author.Name
   ----------|-----------------------|-------------------------------
   Book1     | 2020, 2022            | A, B, C, D (Union of A, B, C and A, B, D)
   Book2     | 2021                  | A, B
   Book3     | 2020                  | A, B, C
   Book4     | 2020                  | A
   ```