---
title: 2022-10-05 weekly meeting
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-07-19T23:29:10.689Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-10-05T15:06:45.920Z
---

## Cycle 4 Retrospective
**Attendees**: Brent, Dom (partial), Ghislaine, Kriti, Mukesh, Pavish, Rajat

We wrote down notes in a [FigJam document](https://www.figma.com/file/0QNB2PXRorJzoYf6rJaBhH/Cycle-4-retrospective?node-id=0%3A1) ahead of time (only accessible to core team).

### What went well
- Marketing and website related work was great
    - Various team members understood the product vision better
    - We have a better idea of how to explain Mathesar in a succinct way or to less technical users
    - Nice to have space for big-picture conversations
- We're done with essential features, only polish and bugs left
- Styling looks great!
- We're getting better at keeping scope of tasks smaller, feels more productive
    - Fixed a bunch of bugs
- We have authentication now!
- We're making progress on improving processes and feedback on the backend team

See also: shout outs section on the FigJam document.

### What could have gone better
- PR reviews remain slow for some team members' work
- Backend performance progress has been slow / hard to follow
- We didn't track the cycle very well
    - Didn't have a specific goal for the cycle
    - Didn't track progress
- Plans changed mid-cycle, disrupted workflow

### Ideas
- Shorter cycles? Maybe 2 weeks each, focused on a specific goal?
- Bring back the spreadsheet!
- Tighten feedback loops on the backend team
    - We already discussed this yesterday at the backend meeting, just reiterating

## Cycle 5 Planning
**Attendees**: Brent, Dom, Ghislaine, Kriti, Mukesh, Pavish, Rajat, Sean (partial)

**Plan for Cycle 5:** we're going to launch our live demo and website on **Nov 22**, in whatever state it is. We have 6.5 weeks to get Mathesar in the best shape we can get it.

Concerns:
- This is Thanksgiving week
    - We won't be needing to fix anything over a holiday, this is not something any external users will be relying on.
- Are we planning to share on Hacker News? Our performance may not be good enough for a large audience.
    - No, we'll wait until our first release so people can download/install it
    - Live demo will be shared with a small number of people we already know
        - Can also use it for usability testing

### What work is left?
- Live demo deployment logistics
    - where?
    - testing
    - who?
    - scale?
    - dataset 
- Performance work
    - Brent: We should consider changing tactics for performance improvements. 
    - Picking off low-hanging fruit seems not to be working.
    - Need separate call to decide on the approach here
    - Replacing pages depending on multiple APIs on the frontend with a single API might be useful for frontend performance
        - We shouldn't do this until after the live demo, will need more discussion and work
- Finish the styling in Figma
- Implement the styling in the product
- Usability testing & QA
- Bugs
    - How do we track bugs in the spreadsheet?
        - Group bugs into meta issues based on some criteria and assign those to people
    - Frontend needs to help prioritize backend bugs
        - We'll a bug prioritization session (async) and that will help with grouping
    - We need to find more bugs, we haven't been using the product much
        - Do QA session earlier rather than later

### Organizing work in a spreadsheet
How do we organize the buckets of work?

- Features should be tracked separately
- Styling – one row per feature
- Live demo logistics
- Performance
    - Backend and frontend
- Usability testing, QA, website work as well
- Bugs – chunk them as described above

**Next steps**: Kriti will organize bug triage and make a spreadsheet, will send it out.

### How should we track and prioritize work?
- Use a spreadsheet
- Prioritize work and assign responsibility at the weekly meeting
- Should we split the cycle into smaller 2 week chunks
    - No, if we track progress like we used to, a longer cycle is fine.
        - We lost track this time because we didn't use a spreadsheet.
    - 2 week cycle planning might hurt our velocity because of the planning and syncing up involved.
    - Let's try the longer cycle and circle back

## Plan for performance work
**Attendees**: Brent, Dom, Kriti, Mukesh

Rethinking performance work:
- Get what we have merged in - Mukesh and Dom's PRs
    - Then call it a day
    - Dom's metadata improvements have massive improvements based on Brent's testing
        - Not sure if we'll need any additional improvements for the demo
- Notes about implementation
    - Once we figure out the prefetch approach for each type of action, we can use it for different APIs easily
    - We can try to get reflection down to constant instead of exponential time, but this is difficult
- We can eke out more performance improvements, but is it a good use of our time?

Plan:
- Get current PRs merged in as highest priority
    - Brent will take responsibility for Dom's PR
    - Dom will take responsibility for Mukesh's PR
- Then, test current APIs on the staging server
    - Mukesh will do this
        - We'll use the staging server since it's most comparable to live demo.
        - Use Developer Tools "Network" tab to log times.
    - Make a spreadsheet with list of APIs over 1 second
    - Ask the frontend for input on what to prioritize
        - We'll use a similar process as we do for bug prioritization

Backend buckets for Live Demo:
- Bugs - 2 people can easily help with this, there are a lot
- Deployment - 1 person needs to focus a bunch of time on this

But, there's more performance work we could do! There are known bugs and issues!
- If there's an issue worth prioritizing, it'll show up on the frontend
- It doesn't matter if there's other bugs or issues you know about, it's not worth working on them right now
