---
title: 2022-10-04 backend meeting
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-05-11T14:42:38.419Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-10-04T19:14:00.847Z
---

**Topic**: The backend codebase is not in a very good state right now. What can we do to increase future feature velocity, and when should we do it?
**Attendees**: Brent, Dom, Kriti, Mukesh, Sean

## Potential agenda
*Written before the meeting*

- Brainstorm about what's slowing us down
- Create a list of current problems with the code
    - What are our current architectural issues?
- Prioritize
    - What do we need to fix for the live demo?
    - What do we need to fix for the first release?
    - What should we prioritize immediately afterwards?
- What process changes do we need to make?

## Brainstorming: what's slowing us down?
Kriti's notes:
- Disagreements about architecture and readability
- Brittle or hard-to-extend infrastructure ("overengineering")
    - Hard to work with code that someone else wrote?
    - Potentially related to the lack of thorough code review and feedback
- Issues taking too long to fix, big PRs, people disappearing into an issue for weeks or months
- Refactors creeping into solving issues
- Lack of "refactorability"
- Lack of discoverability
- Working around SQLAlchemy
- Lack of standards or style guide?
    - To get us on the same page

Dom's notes:
- We've not been providing feedback to each other
- Trouble with keeping PRs small
    - Would be interested in process-aided solutions

Brent's notes:
- small changes need to touch large portion of codebase
- Long loops mean diverging from codebase, misunderstandings, sunk-cost fallacy
- Generally overcomplicated codebase, given our feature set
- review process takes too long
- no process for "stopping bleeding"
- bus factor is _high_. Leads to "only one can work on that part" attitude

Mukesh's notes:
- Fighting the framework
- Complicated codebase due to the need for certain features
- Breaking rules but not sure which one is important

## Problems to solve
Based on the above brainstorming, here are the problems we need to solve and some discussion around them:

- Get on the same page on what style etc. we're aiming at
    - Style may not be a tight enough word here
- Get on the same page on what things matter for style and what things don't
- Get better at feedback and PR reviews
    - We have had a "looks good to me" culture on the backend team
    - See this PR review from Sean as a good example of what we could do: https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/1568
    - We don't want to have only cathartic airing of grievances meetings, we want to build competency/consensus
        - Feedback is a gift for the person you're giving it to, it helps them learn and grow
    - How much should we focus on feedback?
        - No feedback on current codebase, that will be covered when we talk about current codebase complexities
        - We should focus on thorough and honest feedback for new PRs
            - This should be more manageable because we are also tightening up feedback cycles
- Tightening up feedback cycles for PRs (make PRs small)
    - Idea: walk through PRs once a week, even if you're not ready to submit it
        - Hard to see where to split out PRs and make them smaller
        - Would benefit from a regular meeting to walking through the code for current work to get perspective
    - Pair programming could be useful also
    - 1:1s within backend team have been helpful
        - Make them more targeted to current problems
    - Meetings where we demand feedback on a regular basis
        - "Demand feedback" was a action item from public speaking training meetings as well, useful here
- Identify and fix current codebase complexities
    - We shouldn't touch this until we fix some of the above problems
    - It will only complicate things

## Next steps
Live demo & first release are still top priorities, most time/effort will still be focused on them. Here's some small changes we'll make:

- We will schedule another backend meeting in 3 weeks
- To increase velocity, reach out to the person that has the most expertise in a particular part of the codebase and get them to help you with tasks so they are completed quickly.
    - We'll work to break down this "only one can work on that part" through the next few steps.
- Creating backend standards / style guide:
    - Everyone should individually write down notes on what makes code readable
    - We can use that to identify what we disagree on and figure out next steps
    - We'll discuss this at the next meeting
- Be more honest while giving feedback
    - Everyone should keep this in mind
    - No one will be insulted, no pre-filtering is necessary
    - It will help us understand each other's preferences
    - We'll discuss how this is going at the next meeting
- Tightening up feedback cycles
    - Brent & Dom, Brent & Mukesh already have 1:1s
        - Brent will ask questions about current work in 1:1s
        - Focus these 1:1s on feedback and walking through code together
        - Get perspective on how to split up PRs
    - Dom & Mukesh should also set up a similar weekly 1:1
    - We'll discuss how this went at the next meeting
- Identify and fix current codebase complexities
    - We're not tackling this right now
