# March 2022 meeting notes

## Asynchronous discussions
- [2022-03-28 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/1232)
- [2022-03-21 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/1198)
- [2022-03-14 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/1162)
- [2022-03-07 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/1142)

## 2022-03-25

### State of Mathesar check-in

- **Added by**: Kriti
- **Summary**: Check in on alpha release goals and discuss progress. Also discuss hiring.
- **Participants:** Brent, Dominykas, Ghislaine, Kriti, Mukesh, Pavish, Sean, Han

#### Notes
- Alpha release check in
    - Milestones left:
        - Initial Data Types
        - Links Between Tables
        - Queries and Views
        - UI Styling
        - Deployment
        - Alpha Release
    - Goals for alpha release:
        - NOT production ready
        - Basic functionality that demonstrates our value proposition
        - Allow users to connect existing DBs to Mathesar
        - Build out support for designs, don't worry about extensibility yet
        - Bugs and edge cases not being handled are okay
    - Check in:
        - How does everyone think it's going?
            - Slower than expected, Initial Data Types are taking longer
            - Queries and Views are going to be a lot of work
            - GSoC has slowed down coding time
            - It took us a long time to get the query builder design, more interaction between product and design
                - Making the whole UX consistent based on new designs
                - This might involve a lot of frontend work, we'll balance time
        - Concerns? Questions? Ideas?
            - Should we assume we'll have future features when we're building current feature? (e.g. should we assume we'll have undo when building frontend UX)
                - Not right now
        - Feature idea: usage data collection for beta? (opt-in)
- Upcoming hiring
    - Localization engineer
        - Requirements?
            - Frontend skills (JS + frontend framework, TypeScript)
            - Python
            - Error message localization?
            - Bilingual in English and Japanese
            - Japanese local knowledge
    - Evangelist / Community Advocate
        - Videos, documentation, community management
        - In a couple months
    - Design help
        - Contract work to help with Views and UI Styling
    - Engineers?
        - Frontend engineer, start hiring process soon
        - Need to get better at parallelizing on the backend
            - Not enough codebase for another backend engineer to make sense any time soon
    - Could contract out for public marketing website, including copy and graphic design, etc.

### Data Explorer UX

- **Added by**:  Ghislaine
- **Summary**: An overview of Data Explorer's (visual query builder) user flow in preparation for spec review. Recommended reading before meeting: [Data Explorer Spec](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar-wiki/pull/38)
- **Participants:** Brent, Ghislaine, Kriti, Mukesh, Pavish, Sean, Han

Ghislaine went over the wireframes and people asked questions about it and made some design suggestions. No major changes were suggested, a more detailed review will take place asynchronously on the pull request.

## 2022-03-07

### Column Identifier Discussion
Sync call to discuss on how to move forward with conflicting changes with Brent's work on grouping API and Mukesh's work on [Mathesar 896 Change records api parameters to use column id instead of name #1047](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/1047).

- **Participants:** Brent, Mukesh

#### Questions

1. Will there be DDL outside of columns operation, should attnum be used outside columns operations - No
2. DML should use column name or id? 


#### Notes:
- Prefer to have attnums everywhere for consistency if possible.
- View are treated as table in postgres and view columns are stored in similar fashion, with each view column having a attnum as reference.
- Creating auxiliary hidden views without the knowledge of the users won't be a good idea as it would interfere with user's database and won't be optional like custom types.
- Suggestion to use Use autogenerated pseudo identifier for temporary aliased columns.
- We could have a feature where the frontend could supply the alias of the column, this could solve the issue dom was talking about. But it would be a problem if only backend has information about a computed/aliased column. For example if a function generates a temporary column.

#### Conclusion
- Put a pause on the making changes to the grouping response in PR. 
- Records operations should be the only DML. Answers question (1)
- Maybe we need a directory to separate DML and DDL operations, some of the constraint operation can use a column DDL operation.
- Add it as a topic to our weekly meeting. 

## 2022-03-01

### Display options Discussion

Sync call to discuss about display options validation especially around `datetime`, based on [Matrix Discussion](https://matrix.to/#/!UZILDSNKobkelUYwBp:matrix.mathesar.org/$vY0BFdwHvKT-9NcKJ8-y7cZSmQ0QsOlJGg4piJN4fYA?via=matrix.mathesar.org)

- **Participants:** Kriti, Pavish, Mukesh, Dominykas, Sean

#### Notes

- Validation
    - We do generally want display options to be validated by the backend.
    - For datetime types, it doesn't make sense to build in complete validation on the backend.
        - Formatting strings can contain arbitrary non-token information.
        - We need to make sure frontend and backend validation matches and that's a lot of work - probably unnecessary, will probably lead to inconsistencies in the implementation.
        - The backend will only validate length to make sure random data is not stored.
        - Frontend will enforce additional rules.
        - Frontend cannot strictly rely on data from the backend
        
- Format
    - Length = 255
    - Only one string for format
