---
title: 2022-11-09 weekly meeting
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-05-11T14:43:37.658Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2022-11-09T14:47:53.263Z
---

# Cycle 5 progress check-in
- **Required participants:** Entire core team

## Sean
- Reining in linked table dialog
- Working on record summary UI
- Will work on styling after

## Dom
- Working on DE summarization suggestions
- Was worried because spec kept changing, but now pretty confident
- DE work will probably take rest of cycle, might have a little time at the end

## Pavish
- DE will take rest of cycle
- Not sure if can get to Data Import page or Table Page help this cycle
    - We can talk about Sean / Rajat taking it on if it's higher priority

## Ghislaine
- No concerns
- Things that could slow me down â€“ iterating over previous designs that should be finalized
- Linked table design needs to be finalized
- Ghislaine can help with consistency issues in the codebase
    - e.g. fix "red everywhere" problem directly in the codebase
    - Pavish has fixed this in his PR via updating state of the button
- Website work coming up

## Rajat
- Not in a good state, lots of half-done things
- Table inspector urgent priority issue - PR created
- Will be in a better state by the end of the week
    - Schema page - prioritize this, there are other dependencies on this 
        - Icon work is not necessary because of Pavish's work in a different PR
    - Table Inspector
    - half of table page

## Brent
- On hold on bug squashing unless something really urgent pops up
- In live demo mode
- Kriti & Mukesh provided feedback on current PR, needed to re-org PR
    - Some Ansible changes are necessary
- We will deploy live demo work on staging
    - Everyone will have their own copy of the data set
    - Data is tied to your session cookie
- Nothing changes on local development, unless you change the environment variables
- Should we do a different server instead of staging?
    - We want the core team to try and find bugs, so staging seems best
    - We can still access current databases with direct URLs, so we won't lose access to data
    - We can set up a separate team instance for our use
- Will display options and record summary templates be preserved? Can we load them?
    - Haven't tested this.
    - Will spend some time adding some scripting to set up record summary and display options
        - Shouldn't be impossible
- Will need to test live demo PR with database roles permissions PR
    - Merge live demo first
- Front end work needed for live demo:
    - Explain that installation is happening during login
    - Banner for live demo

## Mukesh
- Progress steady with users and permissions
    - Aiming to finish backend work before end of the cycle
- Then work on deployment related tasks
    - installation file idempotency
    - backup
- Concerns about metadata:
    - Should be request based, not global
    - In Brent's queue
- Can we move live demo to a separate server later?
    - We may not want to auto-deploy to live demo server
    - Yes, that's the plan

## Kriti
- Working with lawyer on user agreement
- Working with demo video team - process starts tomorrow
- Speccing out deployment tasks in more detail
- Working with Ghislaine on the website starting next week
- De-prioritizing team usability testing until after live demo, we'll make it a goal for the first release
    - We have too much to do before then