---
title: Core team meeting 2023-03-17
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-05-11T14:48:51.414Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-03-17T15:57:10.154Z
---

**Attendees**:  Brent, Dom, Ghislaine, Kriti, Mukesh, Pavish, Rajat, Sean

## Responsibilities redistribution follow-up

### Questions, clarifications, decisions

- Sean: For projects, where should the source of truth be for assignments? In a central table? Or in each project's page?
    - **Decision**: We'll get rid of the grid, putting all project responsibilities in their respective pages
- Sean: Can we use the word "leader" instead of "owner"? It seems more natural when referring to a specific role e.g. "Marketing team leader" instead of "Marketing team owner"
    - **Decision**: We'll continue using the word "Owner"
- Sean: Can we merge "Approver" and "contributor" into "helper"? Projects can be more specific if needed, but having only "helper" seems simpler as we're looking at many projects at a high level
    - **Decision**: For ongoing responsibilities, we'll use "helper". For projects, we'll have more specific roles, per project
- Sean: We have "User Feedback" responsibility and "Feedback kickoff" project. Do we need to be tracking both right now? Should we at least ensure the same people are assigned to both?
    - **Decision**: Yes, we'll continue to track the separately, we'll have the same people assigned to both
- Sean: What is the boundary between "User Feedback" and "Installation Help"?
    - **Decision**: some users might fall into both categories, in which case they'll participate in both processes separately

### Assign helpers

- We took some time to adjust the people assigned to owning and helping with various roles, making lots of small decisions as we went


### "File data types" vs "Frontend Usability Improvements"

- Sean: [email](https://groups.google.com/a/mathesar.org/g/core-team/c/ZSnUscpKG2A/m/RoqFzzGPBAAJ) with concerns about File data types project

- Frontend Usability Improvements would be:
    - [Design UX for clipboard interactions](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/2377). In particular, this issue has a comment from one of our sponsors saying, _"This is for me a killer feature"_.
    - [Allow content in selected cells to be copied and pasted elsewhere](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/1688)
    - [Allow dragging to select cells from active cell](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/1885)
    - [Cell selection is stuck in drag mode after closing the record selector](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/1917)
    - [Allow users to add/remove filter conditions via the column header menu](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/2232)
    - [Persist column widths via API](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/1421)
    - [Make all sidebar panes resizable](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/2362)
    - [Persist sidebar widths in localStorage](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/2387)

- **Decision**: We'll do "Frontend Usability Improvements"

## Funding thoughts and update

Kriti gave an update about some of her plans and thinking for the upcoming funding project


