---
title: Brent's work log
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-07-20T02:44:18.336Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-07-07T01:56:13.743Z
---

## Actively working on

### Meetings
- 1:1 with Mukesh
- Installation planning meeting V
- 1:1 with Anish

### PR reviews
- [Fix the error when list aggregation on mathesar custom array #3106](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3106)

### Infrastructure
- Figure out where the steps to refresh the demo instances were, and make their location more obvious.

### RSQLA1 project work:
- Moving table splitting work to SQL

### User help
- Conduct a round of follow-up with various users.


## 2023-07-27

### Meetings
- Summarization project meeting

### Summarization project work
- Meeting with Aritra and Sean
- Helped Aritra sort out weird bug when aggregating custom types to arrays.

### RSQLA1 Project work:
- Started on table splitting functions


### 2023-07-26

This was a short day; I got trapped in town for awhile.

### Meetings
- 1:1 with Dom
- Team meeting

### Comms
- Caught up on email and messaging

### GH admin:
- commented on and read through relevant issues

### RSQLA1 project work:
- Discussed PR with Dom.
- Merged PR: [Add DDL functions for altering columns #3097](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3097).

### List project work
- Read through Maria's slides and report; offered feedback

## 2023-07-25

### RSQLA1 project work:
- Submitted PR: [Add DDL functions for altering columns #3097](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3097)
- Caught up with Anish about his progress.


## 2023-07-24

### Github admin
- cleared out GH inbox to make it useful again

### RSQLA1 project work:
- Discovered and fixed tricky bug in type string builder function.

### PR reviews
- [Add Peak Month aggregation function. #3006](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3006) (merged)
- [Add SQL files to the pytest workflow #3082](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3082) (merged)

### List project work
- Read through Maria's report for the list project, provide feedback
- Asynced with Maria about report write-up and presentation


## 2023-07-21

### Meetings
- 1:1 with Mukesh

### RSQLA1 project work:
- Getting python layer for column alteration DDL organized, tested.

### List project work
- Caught up with Maria about report, and her plans for presenting in team meeting next week

### Summarization work
- Participated in the [email thread](https://groups.google.com/a/mathesar.org/g/mathesar-developers/c/oLPQWtxYXg8/m/YCd_wVm8BQAJ) about preproc functions.


## 2023-07-20

### Meetings
- 1:1 with Anish
- Summarization project meeting

### Infrastructure
- Create issue for automating internal.mathesar.org deployment.

### Summarization project
- Meeting about summarizations; will proceed with a couple of list aggregations
- Discussed how to proceed with Kriti async.

## 2023-07-19

### Meetings
- Team meeting

### PR reviews
- [Add Peak Month aggregation function. #3006](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3006) (requested changes)
- [SQL for links creation #2986](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/2986)

### RSQLA1 Project work
- Tidying up and documenting column alteration DDL SQL functions

### Infrastructure
- updating internal.mathesar.org to newest `develop` version.

### User help
- Did a quick look through code using `pglast` and replied to [Does not work on windows #2961](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/2961)


## 2023-07-18

This day was heads-down coding.

### RSQLA1 project work:
- Worked on column alteration DDL functions


## 2023-07-17

### Misc email
- Caught up on developer mailing list

### Meetings
- 1:1 with Dom
- List project meeting with Maria

### RSQLA1 project work:
- Sent project update email
- Worked on column alteration DDL functions

### List project work
- Discussed with Maria how to report to the others how the project turned (is turning) out.

### Summarization project work
- Caught up on preproc discussion on Matrix channel.


## 2023-07-14

### Meetings
- 1:1 with Mukesh

### RSQLA1 project work:
- async with Anish about state of [SQL for links creation #2986](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/2986)
- Worked on column alteration DDL functions

### Summarization project work
- Set up Aritra to proceed with some preprocessing to get more out of current aggregations.


## 2023-07-13

### Meetings
- 1:1 with Anish
- Summarization project meeting with Aritra and Sean

### RSQLA1 project work:
- Followed up with Anish about plan for splitting work moving forward.
- Update [project description](/en/projects/sql-ddl-operations)
- Started on Column altering DDL functions

### Summarization project work:
- Discuss with Sean and Aritra which summarization functions we want to pursue next.


## 2023-07-12

### PR Reviews:
- [SQL for links creation #2986](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/2986) (requested changes)
- [Add Peak Day of Week aggregation function. #3004](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3004) (commented)

### RSQLA1 project work:
- Reviewed remaining pieces, cross-referenced with [RSQLA1: Move DDL Operations to SQL Functions #2737](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/2737)
  - only one minor change was required; it's already pretty up-to-date
- Asynced with Anish about how to divide work

### Summarization project work
- Completed evaluation for GSoC
- Discussed compostition and so on w.r.t. summarization in [this PR](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3004)

### User help:
- Responded to form inquiry in [Freshdesk ticket](https://mathesar.freshdesk.com/a/tickets/733)


## 2023-07-11

This was a short day for me.


### Meetings:
- Installation Planning

### PR reviews
- [Add `Peak Time` aggregation function. #2981](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/2981) (merged)


### RSQLA1
- Follow up on PR [Table create ddl #3016](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3016) (merged)

### Summarization project work:
- Back-and-forth async with Aritra about the SQL portion of his time aggregation PR.

### Installation planning:
- Thought and discussion about what to do regarding DB credential storage.


## 2023-07-10

### Meetings:
- Met with Aritra about time aggregation summarization
- 1:1 with Dom
- Met with Maria about list type

### PR reviews:
- [Add `Peak Time` aggregation function. #2981](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/2981) (requested changes)

### Email
- Caught up on core team mailing list

### Summarization project work:
- Synced with Aritra about review of his PRs.

### List data type project work:
- Asynced with Maria about how to proceed with list type work
- Synced with Maria about List type.

### RSQLA1 Project work:
- Submitted [Table create ddl #3016](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3016)
- Responded to comments and feedback on the same PR.

## 2023-07-07

### Meetings:
- Sync with Mukesh
- Core team event

### List data type project work:
- Async with Maria about how to proceed with new ideas after yesterday's meeting

### PR reviews:
- [Cleaner consolidated logic for adding constraints #2976](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/2976) (merged)
- [Add `Peak Time` aggregation function. #2981](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/2981) (requested changes)
- [Add Peak Day of Week aggregation function. #3004](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3004) (requested changes)
- [Add Peak Month aggregation function. #3006](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3006) (requested changes)

### User help:
- Investigate and comment on [Error while update & import #3002](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3002)
- Open issue to improve documentation [Make permissions requirements clear for gunicorn user #3013](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3013)

### Summarization project work:
- PR reviews

## 2023-07-06

### PR reviews:
- [Cleaner consolidated logic for adding constraints #2976](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/2976)
- [Add `Peak Time` aggregation function. #2981](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/2981)

### Meetings:
- Met with Anish w.r.t. his PR #2976, discussed how to organize the code
- Mathesar weekly meeting
- Met with Maria, Aritra, and Sean about arrays in Mathesar and how to proceed on that project.
- Met with team members about the Installation project

### Code:
- wrote some SQL layer tests for table creation SQL function.
- fixed minor bugs in the same.

### Pondering:
- Thought about how to enforce array dimensionality without relying on type system
- Thought a bit about how to wire Mathesar up to read-only databases and non-Postgres databases using Foreign Data Wrappers
