# September 2021 meeting notes

## 2021-09-28

Please see [2021-09-28 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/684) on GitHub Discussions.

## 2021-09-22

Please see [2021-09-22 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/677) on GitHub Discussions.

## 2021-09-15

Please see [2021-09-15 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/665) on GitHub Discussions.


## 2021-09-07
Please see [2021-09-07 weekly planning](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/discussions/644) on GitHub Discussions.

## 2021-09-06

**Meeting topic**: "State of Mathesar", part 2 - progress so far and next steps.  
**Attendees**: Brent, Ghislaine, Kriti, Pavish

Please see the previous meeting's notes below to get full context for this meeting.

### Process Retrospective

#### Product definition
Current process: Kriti making tickets

#####  Issues

- Lots of tickets, huge volume
- Can't hash out the details ahead of time
    - e.g. money type ticket had potentially foreseeable issues, but only with serious time investment
    - Missing details
    - Interdependencies
- Not enough frontend tickets
    - Tickets are for entire features
    - More frontend tickets will be created after milestone 5
- It's probably not worth the time to look through all tickets in detail ahead of time.
    - We need a different process for re-making a ticket once we start working on it and realize the issues with it.
    - We can't spend an hour per ticket ahead of time, too many tickets.
- Design tickets have the same issue with missing details and interdependencies, but it's assumed at the design-level tickets
- Issues open for community contributors (e.g. marked help wanted) need to be fully detailed.

##### New Process
- Kriti will continue making tickets
- Hash out problems with Kriti as soon as they show up when you're implementing it.
    - Ad hoc calls or back and forth on the ticket.
- Set up a new column in the Active project to put blocked tickets in, that way async communication can also happen and people can move on to other tickets.

#### Design work
- We're focusing on designing features, not about how to guide non-technical users through the designs.
    - Do we need to complete the features first before guiding the users first?
        - We can't guide users until the product is fully finished.
        - Some decisions need to be made with that in mind.
    - Two stage process:
        - Test with users and make improvements before release
        - Continue to make improvements after release.
- Once we have all the pieces implemented, we can think through user scenarios and we'll be thinking about things as a "user flow" rather than a feature.
    - e.g. user may not "create a view", they'll end up with a view
    - The good thing is that we're not doing anything too abstract right now, we do need to consider user flow when creating abstract things.
- By the time we ship alpha or beta, we should have one global prototype.
    - UI revamp will affect them.

#### Design review and collaboration
- Better notifications for design review deadlines
    - Review cycle has been shortened to 2 days for all designs
        - This is to match PR review cycles
- Maybe use wiki repo PRs for design reviews?
    - Not accessible to the community, not a good option
- The team can manage notifications better by using the GitHub notification inbox
- Ghislaine will post in standups that she's blocked a day ahead of time
- GitHub discussion title - use [Draft], [In Progress], [Complete] - or use labels
- The usual review process works well, Ghislaine and Pavish can do ad-hoc calls if needed.
- Pretty good feedback overall
- Mention things that are good about the design
    - Knowing what is good/intuitive is helpful to the design process
    - UX is something you often notice only when it's missing / pissing you off
- Currently not catching "global" flows (i.e., creating a table vs. view might confuse in combination)

#### Frontend development
- Need to flesh out frontend tickets
    - APIs and design changes needed for the ticket
- Having parallel file imports took a week, we probably didn't need it.
    - Figure issues out ahead of time
- When starting a milestone, figure out everything for all the issues in that milestone and get it sorted before started on the milestone
    - After milestone 5, we have everything we need for milestone 5 (current milestone)
- Sync design with frontend
    - Staging needs to be up, hopefully next week

#### Backend development
- How to take a better approach to iteration?
    - Previous discussion about product planning process covers this.
    - e.g. money type - currently, inference will be fairly naive. we can pull some parts out of current tickets because cost/benefit is not worth it.
- Documentation of the API is a shambles
    - Wiki vs. navigatable API
    - Separate tickets to update the docs so that it doesn't slip through the cracks
- Refactoring (ongoing) will be helpful
    - Weird global variables like engines and connections to deal with

#### Frontend & backend collaboration
- For all new frontend tickets, the APIs that are involved should be documented
    - (already discussed)
- API PRs that involve new formats or make changes (e.g. Colin's recent PR), tag Pavish for review
- Eventually: contract testing APIs might be useful for async collaboration
    - not right now
    - https://pactflow.io/blog/what-is-contract-testing/
- Mentioned previously: frontend should look at APIs before starting a new milestone

#### Work planning
- This involves:
    - Standups
    - GitHub workflow (labels, milestones, projects, etc.)
    - Weekly planning
- Discussion:
    - Working well
    - More back and forth on standups?
        - Do we need to repeat what's in GitHub on standups?
        - Maybe it should be more focused on blockers
    - Status report type standups may also be useful for community
        - Useful for Kriti to see work that's not been prioritized
- New standup format:
    - Completed (since last standup)
    - Active (actively worked on, not everything in queue)
    - Dependencies
- [Issue triage wiki page](/team/guide/issue-triage)
- Weekly planning format and GitHub workflow is working very well

#### Communication
- Written communication
    - Check messages frequently
    - for long-form, make sure to think through things before replying
    - Explore if templates exist for discussions
        - maybe templates for wiki pages would also be useful
    - Respond/acknowledge with words instead of emojis so people get notified
    - Try to over-communicate
- Ad-hoc calls
    - :+1: 

#### Hiring
- Going well after first round interviews were divided between Kriti and Pavish
    - Continue to not put first round interviews on a single person
- Should we continue to have contribution task?
    - High rate of candidate drop out due to effort
    - Ensure all candidates have tasks with the same effort
    - Maybe say that whatever they do in a given time frame is fine, even if it's not complete
- Go back to previous process where we give all candidates their own repo and the same task.
- It is worth seeing how well they work with us because a bad hire would be very bad for us at this stage.
- Get backend engineer job up soon.

#### Community management
- Some sort of mailing list or way of notifying people about designs, issues you need help with.
- Label for community input - for discussions and issues
- Can't spend a lot of active time on growing the community right now until alpha release comes out.
    - Automated script for community-friendly issues to create a mailing list
- Eventually monthly community meetings or something like that

#### Team events
- Great, period between it is fine
- Take turns organizing

### Deadline Review
- Review of [current roadmap](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/milestones?direction=asc&sort=due_date&state=open) and update deadlines as needed.
    - Undo/Redo
        - High cost, high benefit
        - would be good to have design aspects decided early
- Deadlines currently left unchanged since it's hard to anticipate how much time we'll need in advance
- We can't move many deadlines without cutting things, so we'll need to figure out what to cut in a month or so if we move out too many deadlines 

### Action Items
- Everyone:
    - use new standup format
        - Completed, Active, Dependencies
    - post what you like about designs during design review
    - create new tickets for documentation updates that are needed so that they don't fall through the cracks
    - talk to Kriti ASAP if the ticket you're working on needs scope modified or design clarified.
    - use words instead of emoji reactions to acknowledge
- Brent:
    - think about team event
    - make sure to ask Pavish to review backend tickets with API changes
- Ghislaine:
    - use labels to mark status of GitHub Discussions for design review 
    - post design review reminders 1 day before deadline in standup 
    - set up a template or checklist for posting review requests
- Kriti:
    - add new column to Active project
    - set up community mailing list or some other form of updates (with automation if possible)
    - follow up on setting up staging server
    - update hiring process for next hire to use standardized task
    - post backend job
- Pavish:
    - review frontend tickets and related APIs before starting new milestones
    - update frontend tickets with API and design changes needed before starting new milestones

## 2021-09-01

**Meeting topic**: "State of Mathesar", part 1 - progress so far and next steps.  
**Attendees**: Brent, Ghislaine, Kriti, Pavish

### Introduction
- We've been focusing mainly on day-to-day work for a while now.
- This meeting's goal is to take some time to look at the bigger picture.

### State of Mathesar
#### Where we are
- The entire team has been working together for about 2.5 months
- 6 milestones (4 feature milestones) and 200+ issues closed
- Until Monday, we had 20 more feature milestones to go.
  - It would be untenable to complete those in 3 months, even with more team members.
  - This was anticipated, our roadmap was fairly ambitious.
- Now we have 13 more to go, with the timeline extended to December. 

#### Our goals
- Our timeline has not changed, ship an alpha version of Mathesar in 2021.
  - Timeline can be extended from November to December, but we can't go longer than that.
  - We only have funding (currently) through the end of 2022, it's essential that we have as much time as possible to find Mathesar some users.
- Our product goal is to show the value proposition of Mathesar in our alpha release.

#### Getting to our goals
Steps for getting to our goal (and agenda for this meeting):

- Make sure we're on the same page about the vision for Mathesar
- Organize our planned features into:
  - Essential for alpha (alpha: release to a few specific users)
  - Essential for the beta, but not alpha (beta: release to the public)
  - Nice to have for the alpha or beta
- Talk through our process and come up with potential improvements to increase speed (without sacrificing quality).
  - A secondary goal is to increase community-friendliness.
- Ensure our milestones and associated deadlines make sense.

### Vision for Mathesar

Also doubles as the value proposition for Mathesar.

- Self-hosted
- Works with existing DBs
- Modular (`db` vs. API vs. client)
- Encourages exploration
- Works for non-technical users
- Works for technical users

See also: [Product Principles](/product/principles)

- Are we sticking to these well? Any feedback?
    - We're all in agreement about the vision and product principles

### Planned Features
- Should we have features between alpha and beta or should beta just be focused on stabilizing the features in the alpha release.
    - Alpha doesn't include viz yet, but having those for beta might be valuable enough
        - maybe also plugins
    - When do we want to do beta release
        - March 2021
        - Will that be enough time to build in features?
            - Maybe plugins and viz aren't too intensive?
            - We'll also have a bigger team
        - We need time for public launch related tasks, e.g. branding, documentation
- Kriti will make updates to milestones based on categorization below

#### Alpha
* Editable Tables
* Working with Tables
* Initial Data Types
* Working with Views
* Data Modeling
* Multiple Database Support
* User Management
* Computed Data
* Summarized Data
* Undo and Redo (DML)
* Bulk Operations on Records
* Better Editing Experience
    * (new milestone)
    * Form based editing for records
* Sharing
    * (new milestone)
    * Sharing forms for people to enter data
    * Sharing views publicly
* Deployment
* Improvements for Non-Technical Users
  * (new milestone) 
  * Will need usability testing with real users
  * Will benefit from co-design from users
* Alpha Release
  * Documentation
  * Dedicated website
  * Branding 
  * Target users currently using spreadsheets, Airtable, database GUI
      * Try to find problems users solve using those tools and explain how Mathesar can solve them.
      * Our user experience is not as simple as Airtable in some ways, might be jarring.
      * Focus on benefits from data integrity improvements (e.g. in COVID data)

#### Beta
* API v1
* Undo and Redo (DDL)
    * (new milestone)
* Plugin Architecture
* Graph Visualizations
* Beta Release
    * (new milestone)

#### Post-Beta
* Calendar Visualization
* Kanban Visualization
* Data Export
    * We'll need an asynchronous layer to make this work well 
* Search (product-wide)
    * We have filters
    * We need to start adding indices etc., will be complicated
* Real-time Collaboration
* Spreadsheet-like Editing

