---
title: 2023-07-06 team meeting
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-07-06T21:08:36.425Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-07-06T21:08:36.425Z
---

## Project finalization
List of projects from last time:
- Kriti & Ghislaine: Strategy / user research
    - Kriti will write up the project
    - Everyone will help
    - More calls with fewer people at once
- Rajat: Internationalization
    - Update the project timeline (on the wiki page) to go till the end of the cycle.
    - Sean frontend review
    - Mukesh backend review
- Brent and Anish: RSQLA1
    - Update the project timeline (on the wiki page) to go till the end of the cycle.
    - Dom: backend reviewer
- Mukesh: Simplifying installs
    - Need to have a meeting to talk about solutions to issues identified in previous meetings
        - today; two hours from start of current meeting.
        - Goal should be to scope and define project for this cycle
        - Sean is setting up the event
    - Mukesh will write up the project after the meeting
    - Might need a front end helper (Pavish?)
    - Might need a front end reviewer (Rajat?)
    - Brent will do back end review
- Pavish: Shareable links
    - Write up the project for the cycle (implementation)
    - Dom: backend reviewer
    - Sean: frontend reviewer
- Sean & Dom: Improvements for 0.1.3
    - There's an ongoing thread for working on priority of issues
    - TODO: Sean, Dom, and Kriti need to prioritize the issues
    - Front end reviewers will rotate
    - Mukesh will do backend review
- Maria & Brent: Wrapping up back end of lists (so far)
    - Helper: Ghislaine
    - No front end needed

We should do an updated round of project writeups specific to this cycle and close out the old ones.

### TODO
- Write up projects by next meeting (Thursday)
- If anyone needs help, talk to Kriti

## Ongoing responsibility finalization

Kriti will own:
- Team management
- Marketing (overall)

We need to designate:
- Release owner: Rajat

Consider rotating:
- Repo admin
- Installation help
    - Now User help
    - Kriti will take ownership
- User feedback tracking
- Marketing responses
- GSoC

Not rotating anything except installation help (see below)

Should we have a responsibility for:
- Helping users who ask for help?
- Renaming installation help to user help
- Need a standard process for dealing with users, whether it's info@ or install request form or Matrix/GitHub requests
- Owner should coordinate the team and establish a process
- Each user should probably be assigned to the person who first talked to them
- Kriti will own this


## Standup (or reporting in general)
Standup isn't really working - let's talk about alternatives.

Goals are visibility for:
- Other team members
    - Project owners should make weekly updates to developer mailing list (Fridays; start next week!)
        - One thread per project
        - No standard format (Kriti sounds skeptical)
- Project owners
    - Keep track of things in your project, put it in the update
- Release manager
    - Pay special attention to the project updates.
- Team manager
    - Need to be able to get reports
    - Sean suggests moving to HackMD
    - Sean and Dom like the todo list aspect of standups.
    - Kriti brought up idea of doing work logs in wiki.
    - Kriti will set up a section of the wiki for personal logs.
- Sign of life
    - We want to develop a culture of saying 'good morning' in Internal channel
    
## Action item wrap-up
- Write up your projects by next meeting.
- Work logs in wiki (most recent on top)
- Weekly updates on Fridays from project owners
- Say hello in the internal channel.
